Places are available for UK based, early career researchers (post-docs,
research fellows, junior faculty) to participate in the workshop detailed
below.  You will join a group of 13 UK scientists travelling to Almaty,
Kazakhstan to showcase your NGS driven research, and to explore new
collaborative links with Kazakh researchers.

Call for participants for workshop on: 
Enhancing capacity for next generation sequencing (NGS) and genomics
in health, agricultural, evolutionary & ecological and environmental
applications in Kazakhstan

Summary
Under the Researcher Links scheme offered within the Newton Fund, the
British Council, Researcher Links scheme we will be holding a workshop on
the above theme in Almaty, Kazakhstan on 18th-24th September 2016. The
workshop is being coordinated by Dr Simon Goodman (University of Leeds,
UK) and Dr Kobey Karamendin (Institute of Microbiology & Virology,
Almaty, Kazakhstan), and will have contributions from other leading
researchers. We are inviting Early Career Researchers based in the
UK to apply to attend this workshop. All travel and accommodation
expenses will be covered by the Newton Researcher Links programme.
Enquiries can be made to Simon Goodman (s.j.goodman@leeds.ac.uk). An
application form, with more details on the initiative, is available from
https://goodmanlabdotorg.files.wordpress.com/2016/08/ngs_almaty_application_details.pdf,
and should be sent to s.j.goodman@leeds.ac.uk by 2nd September or sooner.

Workshop outline
This workshop aims to bring together UK researchers using NGS and
genomics in different fields, with Kazakh scientists, to foster links
that will help enhance the capacity of Kazakh researchers to apply
this technology in their own work, to identify new opportunities for
collaborative research projects between the UK and Kazakhstan and to
promote career development of young scientists.

We are looking for early career researchers (post-docs, research fellows,
junior faculty, with up to 10 years experience post-PhD), using NGS based
techniques in any field (including medical, veterinary, agricultural,
microbiology, ecology & evolution, environmental biology applications),
who are interested in presenting their research and sharing their
experience of developing and running NGS based projects.

The focus will be to highlight how NGS based tools can be applied to
a diverse range of research topics, how to build up and maintain NGS
capabilities for individuals and institutions, and how to design NGS
driven research projects.

The workshop will be based around short presentations on individual
research projects, seminars on NGS technologies and data analysis methods,
poster sessions, discussion panels, networking and social events.

Note this is not a training workshop as such, rather we are looking for
researchers with existing experience.

Outward travel from the UK will be on Sunday 18th September, with a rest
day on the 19th. The main workshop will run until lunchtime on the 23rd,
with return travel to the UK planned for the 24th September.

UK passport holders do not require a visa for Kazakhstan. Other
nationalities should check visa requirements with the Kazakh consulate
in London. Visa processing is stated as requiring a minimum of 5 working
days (http://www.kazembassy.org.uk/en/pages/page/6).

Dr Simon Goodman
School of Biology
Manton Building
University of Leeds
Clarendon Way
Leeds, LS2 9JT, UK

Tel: +44-(0)113-3432561, Fax: +44-(0)113-3432835
Email: s.j.goodman@leeds.ac.uk
Twitter: @DrSimon_Goodman

"S.J.Goodman@leeds.ac.uk" <S.J.Goodman@leeds.ac.uk>

