7th ANNUAL WORKSHOP ON GENOMICS, CESKY KRUMLOV, CZECH REPUBLIC

We are pleased to announce that we are accepting applications for the 7th
Annual Workshop on Genomics which is being held once again in beautiful
Cesky Krumlov, Czech Republic from 8-21 January, 2017. More information
is below and can be found on our website at http://evomics.org.

An on-line application form can be found at:
http://evomics.org/2017-workshop-on-genomics/

2017 Workshop on Genomics, Cesky Krumlov, Czech Republic

Dates: 8-21 January, 2017

Application Deadline: 15 September, 2016 is the preferred application
deadline, after which time people will be admitted to the course
following application review by the admissions committee. However,
later applications will certainly be considered for admittance or for
placement on a waiting list.

Registration Fee: $1800 USD. Fee includes opening reception and
access to all course material, but does not include other meals or
housing. Special discounted pricing has been arranged for hotels,
pensions and hostels. Information regarding housing and travel will be
made to applicants following acceptance.

APPLY HERE: http://evomics.org/2017-workshop-on-genomics/

Useful Links:
Direct Link to the Full Workshop Schedule:
http://evomics.org/workshops/worksho...cesky-krumlov/

General Workshop information: http://evomics.org
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) about the Workshop and Cesky Krumlov
can be found here: http://evomics.org/workshops/faq/

Workshop Overview:
The Workshop on Genomics consists of a series of lectures, demonstrations
and computer laboratories that cover various aspects of genomics focusing
primarily on the analysis of modern sequencing data. Faculty are chosen
exclusively for their effectiveness in teaching theory and practice. The
course is designed for established investigators, postdoctoral scholars,
and advanced graduate students. Scientists with strong interests in
the uses of modern sequence data, analytical methods, and the use of
modern sequence data to study non-model organisms, variant detection and
analysis, genome visualization tools and related areas are encouraged
to apply for admission. Lectures and computer laboratories total ~90
hours of scheduled instruction. No programming experience is required.

Topics to be covered include:
- Sequencing technologies
- Genomics study design
- Manipulation of sequence data using the command-line and quality
  assessment and control techniques
- Analyzing genomic data in the "cloud" using Amazon Web
  Services (AWS)
- Assembly and alignment: basic analyses used for de novo and re-
  sequencing studies
- The use of next-generation sequence data to study non-model organisms
- RAD (Restriction site Associated DNA) sequence analysis
- Metagenome analysis (with WGS and amplicon)
- Evolutionary genomics

Co-directors: Naiara Rodríguez-Ezpeleta, Dag Ahren, Scott A. Handley,
Konrad Paszkiewicz, and Karin Rengefors

For more information and online application see the Workshop web site -
http://evomics.org

"Handley, Scott" <shandley@pathology.wustl.edu>

