Marine evolution under climate change

International course for PhD students and post docs.

20-25 November 2016, Kristineberg, Sweden

What determines species-sensitivity to future environmental stressors
and how does it relate to a species recent evolutionary history? What
life-history strategies will be selected in future oceans? How can we
assess a species' adaptation potential? What is the role of
phenotypic plasticity in species resilience? What will be the
evolutionary rules in future oceans? What is the role of ecological
interactions in future ecosystem changes?

This is an international course for PhD students and postdocs to learn
more about how climate change (including global warming, ocean
acidification, hypoxia) affects evolutionary rules that shape ocean
ecosystem.

Applications should include a short description of your research
interest and why you would like to participate, max one A4 page, and CV
with publication list.

Deadline for registration: 5th September 2016

Send your application to: sam.dupont@bioenv.gu.se

Course organizers:

Sam Dupont, CeMEB

Piero Calosi, Universite du Quebec ??  Rimouski (UQAR), Canada

CeMEB teachers: Sam Dupont, Alexander Ventura, Pierre de Wit

Invited teachers:

Piero Calosi (University of Quebec ??  Rimouski, Canada)

Greg Puncher (University of New Brunswick, Canada)

http://cemeb.science.gu.se/activities/courses/marine-evolutionary-biology-a=
dvanced-courses/advanced-course-2016

Gregory Neils Puncher
Post Doctoral Fellow - Dept. Biological Sciences
T 506 648-5985 C 506 607-1879
Office CRI 128 Lab CRI 215
PO BOX 5050
Saint John, New Brunswick
Canada  E2L 4L5
 skype: greg.n.puncher

University of New Brunswick

Facebook /uofnb  Twitter @unb  Instagram @discoverunb UNB.ca

Confidentiality Note: This email and the information contained in it is
confidential, may be privileged and is intended for the exclusive use
of the addressee(s). Any other person is strictly prohibited from
using, disclosing, distributing or reproducing it. If you have received
this communication in error, please reply by email to the sender and
delete or destroy all copies of this message.

Greg Puncher <Gregory.Puncher@unb.ca>

