Dear Colleague

This is just a gentle reminder requesting your attendance at our the
3rd NoR HGT & LUCA meeting entitled: 'The landscape of the emergence
of life' being held on 3-4 November 2016, at the Open University,
Milton Keynes, UK. The meeting has now begun to take shape, which you
can check on our website: www.nor-hgt-luca.com. If you wish to give an
oral presentation please let me have the abstract pertaining your talk.
In the event you are unable to attend, please pass this information on
to your colleague(s) who may wish to attend. I also attach a conference
poster for your kind attention.

Finally, I thought you might like to know the tone of the conference
this year. Some of the highlights so far are:(1) Prof Avshalom C
Elitzur, Israel, who will be talking about non-living 'phenomena'
in nature that sort of reflect life, (2) Dr Mukesh Bhatt, UK,
discussing the very thought provoking, legal definition of life; both
these invitees are intended to inspire scientists to think 'out-side
the box' so to speak. A third speaker (Prof Helen Hansma, USA) will
be talking about clays, RNAs and has an interesting and a different
take on the origin of LUCA from the normal run of the mill stuff. Also
coming are the eminent speakers: Profs Peter Gogarten (LUCA and HGT)
and Andrew Pohorille (proteins)both of NASA and Dr Michael Galperin
(comparative genomics and the LUCA), USA; Prof Giuseppe Battaglia
(vesicles and biomembranes specialist) of UCL, UK and there is also a
mathematical treatment to life, delivered by Dr Claudio Maccone of
Italy.

I look forward to hear from you, whether the answer is yes or no.

Kind regards

Sohan

Dr Sohan Jheeta

Independent Educator and Research Scientist

www.sohanjheeta.com

Chairman: NoR HGT & LUCA

Guest Editor: MDPI: Life Journal special issue: 'Horizontal gene
transfer & its part in the reorganisation of genetics during the LUCA
epoch'

Guest Editor: the International J of Astrobiology special issue: 'The
routes of emergence of life from LUCA during the RNA and viral world'

Guest Editor: MDPI: Life Journal special issue: 'The landscape of the
emergence of life'

Branch Committee Member of the Institute of the Physics (MInstP)

Branch Committee Member of the Royal Society of Biology (MRSB)

Honourable Member of the International Advisory Board of the Oriental
Journal of Chemistry

Branch Committee Member and the Deputy Chair of the local branch of the
Royal Society of Chemistry (MRSC)

Member of the Royal Astronomical Society (FRAS)

Member of the Royal Astronomical Society's Hot Chemistry Group

Member of the International Society for the Study of the Origin of Life
(ISSOL)

Member of the European Astrobiology Network Association (EANA)

Member of the Astrobiology Society of Britain (ASB)

The Royal Microscopical Society

Reviewer on the Journal of Astrophysics and Space Science (ASTR)

Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics Ambassador

This email has been scanned by BullGuard antivirus protection.

For more info visit www.bullguard.com

Sohan Jheeta <sohan7@ntlworld.com>

