The Gulbenkian Training Programme in Bioinformatics

Applications for the bioinformatics training course

AET16 - Applied Evolutionary Theory
with Claudia Bank, Rafael Guerrero and Stephan Peischl
are open.

Please refer to the course website
http://gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt/bicourses/AET16
for details.

  IMPORTANT DATES for this Course
    Deadline for applications: Oct 25th 2016
    Course dates: Nov 7th - Nov 11th 2016

Course Description
For many of its history, our knowledge of evolution has been based  
heavily on theoretical models and hypotheses. In the age of novel  
experimental and technological approaches, we are now increasingly  
able to evaluate this theory; however, the basics of how and why to  
develop and analyse a simple model are often forgotten in the process  
of NGS analysis. This course aims at training evolutionary biologists  
in classical modelling and teach them ways to approach their own  
research questions through evolutionary theory.

Primarily through interactive hands-on sessions, complemented by an  
introduction to the cornerstones of modelling and its application to  
data analysis, this course will familiarize the participants with ways  
of approaching a research question with a simple model, and different  
strategies at gaining insight from the model. In groups of two, course  
participants will develop and analyse their own toy model in the  
course and present their findings to the group on the last day.
Topics that will be covered in the course include the following:

     Why and how are models useful?
     How to write down/develop a model
     How simple/complicated should a model be?
     Which modelling approach/programming language should I use for my  
         question?
     How to nail down a question with a model
     Extracting results from an equation/simulation
     How to evaluate a model using empirical data

Participants can use their preferred programming language during the  
hands-on sessions, and free access to Wolfram Mathematica will be  
provided. The instructors have modelling experience using Mathematica,  
R, Python, and C++.

Best regards
Pedro Fernandes

Pedro Fernandes
GTPB Coordinator
Instituto Gulbenkian de Ciência
Apartado 14
2781-901 OEIRAS
PORTUGAL
Tel +351 21 4407912
http://gtpb.igc.gulbenkian.pt

Pedro Fernandes <pfern@igc.gulbenkian.pt>

