-WHERE? Alexander & Gerbi Hotel, Weggis, Switzerland

-WHEN ? January 8th - January 13^rd 2017

-APPLICATION DEADLINE ? 17th October 2016

-ORGANISERS

-Dr. Amandine Cornille, ETH Zurich, Switzerland
(amandine.cornille@gmail.com): main organiser, contact her for any
questions.

-Dr. Daniel Croll, University of Zurich, Switzerland
(daniel.croll@usys.ethz.ch)

-Prof. Dr. Alex Widmer, ETH Zurich, Switzerland
(alex.widmer@env.ethz.ch)

-AIMS and OBJECTIVES

The goal of our 5-days workshop is to bring together an outstanding
group of experts that develop conceptual, theoretical and experimental
approaches to study the ecological genomics of coevolutionary
interactions. These instructors will introduce workshop participants to
modern concepts, models and methods that are widely being used or are
currently being developed. The first four days of the workshop will
consist of lectures and practical demonstrations given by the
instructors, followed by hands-on exercises performed by the
participants under guided supervision. The lectures will focus on
current topics and latest developments relevant for investigating
ecogenomics of coevolutionary interactions (see program: inferring
co-demographic histories and testing for co-adaptation). Participants
will focus on datasets provided by the instructors in the light of new
developments. On the fifth day, thematic talk sessions with
presentations from invited speakers and selected participants will
illustrate current research on the ecological genomics of coevolution.
In order to enhance discussions during the five-day workshop, we will
also ask participants to present a poster of their own work on the
first day to introduce themselves and their research topic.

-PROVISIONAL PROGRAM

Day 1: Computational methods to infer co-demographic histories using
genomic data, Dr. Aurelien Tellier (Center of Life and Food Sciences,
Technische Universitat Munchen, Munich, Germany).

Day 2 : Computational methods to infer histories of co-divergences
using genomic data, Prof. Dr. Alexei Drummond and Dr. Alexandra
Gacryushkina (Department of Computer Science, University of Auckland,
New Zealand).

Day 3 : Testing co-adaptation using genomic data, Prof. Dr. Eva
Stukenbrock (Max Planck Institute, Plon, Germany).

Day 4: Testing co-local adaptation using genomic data, Prof. Dr. Peter
Tiffin (College of Biological Sciences, University of Minessota, Falcon
Heights, US)

Day 5: Oral presentations on the application of methods and theory for
investigating the ecological genomics of coevolution (main invited
speaker: Prof. Dr. Dieter Ebert, Zoologisches Institut, Univ. of Basel,
Basel, Switzerland + selected oral presentations).

-INFO & REGISTRATION :
http://www.adaptation.ethz.ch/education/gen-ecol-coevol.html

-FUNDING

The workshop is co-funded by
  * Center for Adaptation to a Changing Environment (ACE), ETH Zurich,
    Switzerland
  * Swiss National Science Fundation (SNSF), Switzerland

--
Post-doc
Adaptation to a Changing Environment (ACE)
ETH Zurich
Institut f. Integrative Biologie
Universitatstrasse 16
8092 Zurich
Switzerland
and from February 2017
Chargee de Recherche CNRS CR2
Genetique Quantitative et Evolution - Le Moulon
Ferme du Moulon
91190 Gif-sur-Yvette
France

Amandine Cornille <amandine.cornille@gmail.com>

