Dear Colleagues,

We invite you to the *Teaching Computation in the Sciences Using
MATLAB* workshop
focused on building students' ability to solve problems with computation
using MATLAB in their undergraduate evolutionary biology courses.
Quantitative and computational skills are an important component of current
biological practice, and this is especially evident in evolutionary
research.  Faculty are invited to join an interdisciplinary community to
explore how their evolutionary applications of MATLAB in the undergraduate
classroom can contribute to best practices for the community.   By
attending the workshop, you will be part of a community effort to bring
together best practices and teaching materials that will be made freely
available through the SERC website. MathWorks (makers of MATLAB®) is
sponsoring the workshop.

*Details*

Workshop:                             Teaching Computation in the Sciences
Using MATLAB
Location:                                Carleton College, Northfield, MN

Date:                                         October 23-25, 2016 (5PM
 Sunday - 2PM Tuesday)
Application Deadline:                     September 2, 2016

Learn more from the workshop website:
http://serc.carleton.edu/matlab_computation2016/index.html

Workshop Description:

The *Teaching Computation in the Sciences Using MATLAB *workshop will bring
together faculty from the sciences, including Chemistry, Geoscience,
Physics, Biology, and allied fields, who teach computation and quantitative
thinking skills using MATLAB. Computation is broadly defined as using
computers in scientific work to understand and solve problems, or
formulating problems in ways that can be computed. Computational skills are
critically important for students to understand complex systems, analyze
data, and create numerical models and visualizations-all essential aspects
of modern science. These skills require students to have comfort and skill
with languages and tools such as MATLAB. To achieve comfort and skill,
computation and quantitative thinking must build over a 4-year degree
program across courses and disciplines. Participants will help build a
collection of teaching activities that showcase computation, quantitative
thinking, and applied math using MATLAB and design approaches to
integrating these skills throughout science degree programs.

This workshop target is 30 college educators (by application).

The application deadline is *September 2, 2016*.

There is no registration fee to attend.

To apply, go to:
http://serc.carleton.edu/matlab_computation2016/application.html

We hope to see you there!

If you have additional questions, direct them to Rory McFadden (
rmcfadden@carleton.edu).

Thank you,

Lisa Kempler

MATLAB Community Strategist, MathWorks

https://serc.carleton.edu/NAGTWorkshops/data_models/toolsheets/MATLAB.html

Cathryn A. Manduca

Director, Science Education Resource Center

Executive Director, National Association of Geoscience Teachers

Kristin Jenkins

Executive Director, BioQUEST Curriculum Consortium

Kelly Roos

Professor, Department of Engineering Physics, Bradley University

PICUP Leadership Council

Frederik J. Simons

Associate Professor, Department of Geosciences, Princeton University

Wendy Thomas

Associate Professor, Department of Bioengineering, University of Washington

Kristin P. Jenkins, PhD
Director

BioQUEST Curriculum Consortium
bioquest.org
(608) 622.9394
POBox 126
Boyds, MD 20841-0126

Kristin Jenkins <kristin.jenkins@bioquest.org>

