First Call
Experimental Evolution: Theory and Current Practices

The International Graduate Program in Life Sciences and the
Interdisciplinary Master in Life Sciences (IMaLis) are now accepting
applications for the course "Experimental evolution: theory and current
practices", to be held at the Institute of Biology of the =C9cole Normale
Sup=E9rieure (IBENS), in Paris, November 7-11, 2016.

The course will introduce Master and PhD students in Evolutionary Biology
to the experimental approaches employed to test evolutionary theory.  It
will bring together world-renowned researchers to lecture on topics
including the historical development of experimental evolution approaches,
experimental design, the evolution of sexuality, origin of
multicellularity and sociality, or the genetic basis of adaptation to
novel environments. Lectures will be complemented with computer tutorials
on the analysis of experimental population genomics data.

The course will be restricted to a maximum of 10 students. Meal and
accommodation costs will be fully covered and there is no registration
fee. Upon successful completion of the course, European students will be
awarded 6 ECTS credits.

Provisional faculty: Charlie Baer (University of Florida); Ivo Chelo
(Instituto Gulbenkian de Ci=EAncia); Antony Dean (University of Minnesota);
Marie-Anne F=E9lix (IBENS) ; Thiago Guzella (IBENS); Steve Proulx
(University of California, Santa Barbara); Paul Rainey (ESPCI and New
Zealand Institute for Advanced Study); Christian Schl=F6tterer (Institut f=
=FCr
Populationsgenetik); Olivier Tenaillon (Universit=E9 Paris 7); Henrique
Teot=F3nio (IBENS); Arjan de Visser (Wageningen UR).

Sponsoring and partner graduate programs: IBENS, Pepiniere
interdisciplinaire CNRS-PSL Eco-Evo-Devo, and the Vienna Graduate School
of Population Genetics.

We will receive applications until September 30, 2016, and selection
results will be available the following week. Applicants should send a
letter of motivation and a CV as a single PDF file to:
teotonio@biologie.ens.fr.

We also welcome participants at any stage of their careers to attend the
lectures. Meals and accommodation costs will not be covered in this case.
Registration is required by sending an email to: teotonio@biologie.ens.fr.
We will accept applications on a first come first serve basis, to a
maximum of 30.

Further information and updates can be found at
http://www.gradprog.biologie.ens.fr/

teotonio@biologie.ens.fr

