III Porto Alegre Hierarchical Modeling Workshop

Site-Occupancy and Species Distribution Models

Date: October 9-15, 2016

Lecturers: Marc Kery, Swiss Ornithological Institute, Sempach,
Switzerland
David Miller, Penn State University, University Park, USA
Goncalo Ferraz, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto
Alegre, Brazil

Teach. Assistants: Ulisses Camargo, University of Helsinki, Finland
Courtney Davis, Penn State University, University Park, USA
Murilo Guimaraes, UFRGS, Porto Alegre, Brazil
Nicolas Strebel, Swiss Ornithological Institute, Sempach, Switzerland

Location: Pousada Haras Cambara, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul,
Brazil

Language: English

Organization: Programa de Pos-Graduacao em Ecologia, Instituto de
Biociencias, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS), with
support from the Swiss Ornithological Institute, Penn State College of
Agricultural Sciences, and the Finnish Ministry of Education and Culture.

Course Fee: R$1200, covering lectures and handouts, food and accommodation
for the whole week. Five bonus slots (reduced fee of R$250) will be
available and distributed to graduate students on a merit basis.

Attendance: 25 Participants max.

This workshop is the third in a series of Porto Alegre Hierarchical
Modeling Workshops for Ecologists, started in 2014. Each year we focus
on a particular modeling topic and the theme for 2016 is site-occupancy
modeling with particular emphasis on species distribution modeling. The
workshop will open with a one-day introduction to linear, generalized
linear and mixed models, and their implementation in the Bayesian and
likelihood framework. From day two on, we turn our attention to the
modeling of species distributions, focusing on the powerful
site-occupancy models, which deal explicitly with measurement errors in
species detection/non-detection data. We first study the basic
MacKenzie et al. (2002) static model, and then develop a range of
variations on the basic theme, with particular attention to
dynamic occupancy models, mis-identification models, and spatial models
of species distribution. A large part of the content will draw on three
successful applied statistics books co-authored by Marc Kery and
published by Academic Press (2010, 2012, and 2016). Most models will be
implemented in a Bayesian framework, but we will show likelihood
implementations, too, especially in the user-friendly R package
unmarked. Ample time will be given for solving exercises, which will
require some experience in R. We encourage participants to bring their
own research problems for discussion during the workshop; both new
and returning applicants are welcome.

HOW TO APPLY: Visit http://www.ferrazlab.org/workshops and use the
application form link to send us a CV and short letter describing
former experience with ecological modeling and R (and possibly with
BUGS software). Please also tell us your main reasons for wanting to
attend and whether you want to apply for a bonus slot. This course is
geared towards an audience of Latin American graduate students but
we welcome applications from any background, professional activity and
geographic origin. Please send your application no later than June
30th; we will get back to you until July 5th. For more information
please visit http://www.ferrazlab.org/workshops or write directly
to goncalo.ferraz@ufrgs.br.

Gonçalo Ferraz <goncalo.ferraz@ufrgs.br>

