In this workshop we are very much interested in the evolutionary
mechanisms behind social behavior and we will specifically concentrate
on sensory constrains. Consequently, we would greatly appreciate the
participation of evolutionary biologists.

THE ROLE OF SENSORY ECOLOGY AND COGNITION IN SOCIAL DECISIONS
When? 19-22 July 2016
Where? Arolla (Swiss Alps), Switzerland
This workshop is organized by Prof. Michaël Taborsky and Dr. Karin
Schneeberger from the University of Bern (CH).

Invited speakers:
Prof. Lars Chittka, University of London (UK)
Prof. Rui Oliveira, Universidade de Lisboa (PT)
Prof. Kevin Laland, University of St. Andrews (UK)
Prof. Douglas Chivers, University of Saskatchewan (CA)
Prof. Maud Ferrari, Prof. University of Saskatchewan (CA)
Prof. Tecumseh Fitch, University of Vienna (AT)
Prof. David Stephens, University of Minnesota (US)

DESCRIPTION:
The program of the workshop will consist of a combination of plenary
talks by invited speakers and work performed in small groups, in which
the participants will discuss a particular theme together with one of
the invited speakers. The results of these small-group sessions willl
be presented to the plenum by student participants, followed by a
general discussion.

Social interactions are often assumed to require advanced cognitive
abilities, as social behaviour typically happens among a large network
of individuals, across different contexts, and over extended time
periods. This is at variance with the observation that complex social
behaviour can be observed in a wide range of animals, both in the
laboratory and field. We think that rather simple cognitive mechanisms
can generate complex social responses.

The aim of this workshop is to discuss sensory and cognitive abilities
and limitations of animals in the context of the evolution of social
behaviour. Topics discussed in the workshop will include, for instance:
- how social cues and signals are perceived by individuals
- how they are used for decision making
- the role of memory for behavioural responses in repeated social
  interactions
- the significance of different sensory modalities for communication in
  the contexts of conflict and cooperation.

These topics are of great interest to students and scientists from
different disciplines, such as evolutionary and behavioural ecology,
neurobiology, cognitive sciences, and psychology. Interaction between
different fields will identify open questions and directions for future
interdisciplinary research

For more info and
registration: http://www.cuso.ch/activity/?p=1128&uid=3033
Queries: ecologie-evolution@cuso.ch

Caroline Betto-Colliard <Caroline.Betto-Colliard@unil.ch>

