AsconaSwitzerland.PopGenomicsFungalPathogens.May7-11

POPULATION GENOMICS OF FUNGAL AND OOMYCETE PATHOGENS OF ANIMALS AND
PLANTS

7-11 May 2017

Monte Verita Conference Center, Ascona, Switzerland

Conference website:
http://www.path.ethz.ch/education/population-genomics-of-fungal-and-oom
ycete-diseases-of-animals-a.html

Conference email inquiries to:  ascona_2017@usys.ethz.ch

CONFERENCE OVERVIEW:

The population genomics of fungal and oomycete pathogens is a rapidly
growing area of research. New datasets, new sequencing methodologies
and new analytical methods are enabling a deeper understanding of the
evolutionary processes driving the emergence of fungal and oomycete
pathogens. This conference aims to enrich our understanding of the
processes driving the evolution of plant, animal and human pathogens,
with an over-riding goal of identifying the genomic changes responsible
for adaptation to novel hosts and environments. A secondary goal will
be to determine how the relevant genes (and their underlying functions)
vary along ecological/agronomic gradients associated with host
specialization, including quantitative adaptation to host resistance.
The conference will be oriented around genome-based approaches,
including; 1) using population genomics to understand pathogen
emergence and host specialization, 2) using genome-wide association
studies to identify key genes and genomic regions associated with
pathogen local adaptation, 3) using population genomics to understand
pathogen divergence/speciation, 4) developing new analytical methods
for population genomic analyses.

CONFIRMED SPEAKERS:

Daniel Croll (University of Neuchatel, Switzerland)

Barbara Dunn (Stanford University, USA)

Matthew Fisher (Imperial College London, UK)

Tatiana Giraud (CNRS-Universite Paris Sud, France)

Pierre Gladieux (INRA BGPI, France)

Michael Hood (Amherst College, USA)

Hanna Johannesson  (Uppsala University, Sweden)

Sophien Kamoun (The Sainsbury Laboratory, John Innes Center, UK)

Anna-Liisa Laine (University of Helsinki, Finland)

Gianni Liti (IRCAN, France)

Bruce McDonald (ETH Zurich, Switzerland)

Joseph Spatafora (Oregon State University, USA)

Jason Stajich (University of California Riverside, USA)

John Taylor (University of California Berkeley, USA)

VENUE:

~75 conference participants will be able stay on-site at the Monte
Verita conference center.  The remaining ~35 participants will be able
to find accommodation in the nearby city of Ascona.  All lunches and
dinners will take place at the Monte Verita conference center.  More
details, including off-site housing options, will be provided on the
conference website.

REGISTRATION:

Though the entire conference is subsidized by the Swiss National
Science Foundation, the ETH Zurich CSF, and BASC LabEx, the cost of
attending this meeting will be approximately CHF1100 = euro1000 = $1130
for each conference delegate.  This estimate includes a registration
fee, all meals and lodging, and is based on double-occupancy.  Travel
costs are not included in this estimate.  A more precise calculation of
the expected costs will be posted on the conference web site after we
have finished negotiations with the Monte Verita conference center.

Participation in the conference will require pre-registration because
only 110 places are available. Participants are required to fill out a
form and submit a 250-word abstract for an oral and/or poster
presentation.  The form can be downloaded on the conference website.

Pre-registration opens on 1 November 2016 and closes on 31 December
2016.

Bruce McDonald
Plant Pathology
Institute of Integrative Biology, Zurich (IBZ)
ETH Zurich, LFW B16
8092  Zurich
Switzerland
Office: +41 44 632 3847
FAX:   +41 44 632 1572
Assistant: +41 44 632 3848 (Sandra Galfetti)
Email: bruce.mcdonald@usys.ethz.ch
Web (Group):  http://www.path.ethz.ch

McDonald  Bruce <bruce.mcdonald@usys.ethz.ch>

