"Advanced Python for biologists"

http://prstatistics.com/course/advanced-python-for-biologists-apyb/

This course is being delivered by Dr Martin Jones, an expert in Python
and author of two text books,

Python for Biologists [http://www.amazon.com/Python-Biologists-complete-programming-beginners/dp/1492346136/]

Advanced Python for Biologists [http://www.amazon.com/Advanced-Python-Biologists-Martin-Jones/dp/1495244377/].

This course will run from 6th - 10th February 2017 at Flatford Mill
field centre, Suffolk, England

This workshop is aimed at researchers and technical workers with a
background in biology and a basic knowledge of Python.

The workshop is delivered over ten half-day sessions. Each session
consists of roughly a one hour lecture followed by two hours of practical
exercises, with breaks at the organizer's discretion. Each session
uses examples and exercises that build on material from the previous one,
so it's important that students attend all sessions. A description of
the sessions can be found under programme.

Students should have enough biological/bioinformatics background to
appreciate the examples and exercise problems (i.e. they should know
what a protein accession number, BLAST report, and FASTA sequence is).

Curriculum:

Day 1:

Session 1 - Data structures in Python
In this session we will briefly recap Python's basic data structures,
before looking at a couple of new data types   tuples and sets  
and discussing where each should be used. We will then see how we can
combine these basic types to make more complex data structures for
solving specific problems. We'll finish our discussion by looking at
specialized data types that are found in the Python core library. This
session will also be our first introduction to benchmarking as we talk
about the relative performance of different data types. In the practical
session we'll learn how to parse an input file into a complex data
structure which we can then use to rapidly query the data. Core concepts
introduced: tuples, sets, higher-order data structures, default dicts,
Counters, big-O notation.

Session 2 - Recursion and trees
In this session we will cover two very closely related concepts: trees
(i.e. the various ways that we can store hierarchical data) and recursive
functions (the best way to operate on treelike data). As recursion is
inherently confusing, we'll start with a gentle introduction using
biological examples before moving on to consider a number of core
tree algorithms concerning parents, children, and common ancestors. In
the practical session we'll look in detail at one particular way of
identifying the last common ancestor of a group of nodes, which will
give us an opportunity to explore the role of recursion. Core concepts
introduced: nested lists, storing hierarchical data, recursive functions,
relationship between recursion and iteration.

Day 2:

Session 3 - Classes and objects
In this session we will introduce the core concepts of object-oriented
programming, and see how the data types that we use all the time in
Python are actually examples of classes. We'll take a very simple
example and use it to examine how we can construct our own classes, moving
from an imperative style of programming to an object-oriented style. As
we do so, we'll discuss where and when object-orientation is a good
idea. In the practical we will practise writing classes to solve simple
biological problems and familiarize ourselves with the division of code
into library and client that object-oriented programming demands. Core
concepts introduced: classes, instances, methods vs. functions, self,
constructors, magic methods.

Session 4 - Object-oriented programming
Following on from the previous session, we will go over some advanced
ideas that are common to most object-oriented programming languages. For
each idea we'll discuss the basic concept, the scenarios in which it's
useful, and the details of how it works in Python. This overview will also
allow us to consider the challenges involved in designing object-oriented
code.  In the practical we will work on a simulation which will involve
multiple classes working together. Core concepts introduced: inheritance
and class hierarchies, method overriding, superclasses and subclasses,
polymorphism, composition, multiple inheritance.

Day 3:

Session 5 - Functional programming in Python
This session will start with a look at a few different concepts that
are important in functional programming, culminating in a discussion
of the idea of state and its role in program design. We will see how
functional programming is, in many ways, the complement of object-oriented
programming and how that realization informs our decision about when
to use each approach. We'll take a quick tour of Python's built-in
tools that take advantage of functional programming and see how we
can build our own.  We'll finish with a brief look at how functional
programming can vastly simplify the writing of parallel code. In the
practical, we'll practise using Python's built-in functional tools,
then implement one of our own.  Core concepts introduced: state and
mutability, side effects, first-class functions, declarative programming,
lazy evaluation, parallelism, higher- order functions.

Session 6 - Iterators, comprehensions and generators
We'll start this session with a discussion of Python's iteration
mechanism, focussing particularly on the behaviour of the functional
methods from the previous session. Next, we'll introduce the idea of
comprehensions as a way to concisely define lists and generators as
a way to produce those lists efficiently. We'll see how to extend
the same idea to sets and dicts, leaving us with comprehensions as a
powerful tool in our programming toolbox. We'll finish with a look
at how we can use iterators inside our own classes, tying together the
ideas of object-oriented and functional programming. In the practical,
we'll re-examine some of the problems from previously in the course
using the new tools. Core concepts introduced: iteration, interfaces,
comprehensions, generators, eager vs. lazy sequences.

Day 4:

Session 7 - Exception handling
This session will start with a reminder of the difference between syntax
errors and exceptions, after which we will explore the syntax involved
in catching and handling exceptions. We'll then examine the way that
exceptions can be handled in multiple places and the consequences for
program design. We'll finish this session by learning how we can take
advantage of Python's built-in exception types to signal problems
in our own code, and how we can create custom exception types to deal
with specific issues. In the practical we'll modify existing code to
make use of exceptions. Core concepts introduced: exception classes,
try/except/else/finally blocks, context managers, exception bubbling,
defining and raising exceptions.

Session 8 - Packaging and distribution
We'll start this session by looking at our options for reusing code in
Python and seeing how the methods differ depending on whether we want
to share code between files in a program, between many programs on the
same system, or between many programmers on different systems. This
leads into a discussion about packaging and distribution, in which
we'll discuss the roles of Python's package management tools and
package repositories.  In the practical session we'll turn existing
code into modules and packages.  Core concepts introduced: modules,
namespaces, dependencies, executing modules, packages, metadata.

Day 5:

Session 9 - Performance and benchmarking
In this session we'll learn about the various tools Python has for
benchmarking code (i.e. measuring its memory and runtime performance) and
for profiling code (identifying areas where improvements can be made).
We'll see that different tools are useful in different scenarios,
and collect a set of recommendations for improving program performance.
We'll use these tools to illustrate and measure points about performance
that have been made through the course. In the practical, we'll take
real-life code examples, measure their performance, and try to improve
it. Core concepts introduced: function profiling, line profiling,
profiler overhead, timing.

Session 10 - Unit testing
In this session we will begin with a gentle introduction to testing which
will illustrate why it's useful and what type of problems it can solve.
We'll run through a series of examples using Python's built-in testing
tools which will cover a number of different testing scenarios. We'll
then implement the same set of tests using the Nose testing framework
and examine how using a framework makes the tests easier to write and
interpret. After looking at a number of specialized tests for different
types of code, we'll discuss the impact of program design on testing.
In the practical we'll practise building and running test suites for
existing code.

Please send inquiries to oliverhooker@prstatistics.co.uk or visit the
website www.prstatistics.com

Please feel free to distribute this information anywhere you think 
suitable

Upcoming courses - email for details oliverhooker@prstatistics.com
1.	INTRODUCTION TO PYTHON FOR BIOLOGISTS (October)
2.	LANDSCAPE GENETIC DATA ANALYSIS USING R (October)
3.	PHYLOGENETIC DATA ANALYSIS USING R (October/November)
4.	SPATIAL ANALYSIS OF ECOLOGIC AL DATA USING R (November)
5.	ADVANCING IN STATISTICAL MODELLING USING R (December)
6.	MODEL BASED MULTIVARIATE ANALYSIS OF ECOLOGICAL DATA USING R 
(January)
7.	ADVANCED PYTHON FOR BIOLOGISTS (February)
8.	NETWORK ANALYSIS FOR ECOLOGISTS USING R (March)
9.	INTRODUCTION TO GEOMETRIC MORPHOMETRICS USING R (June)

Dates still to be confirmed - email for details 
oliverhooker@prstatistics.com
-	STABLE ISOTOPE MIXING MODELS USING SIAR, SIBER AND MIXSIAR USING R
-	INTRODUCTION TO R AND STATISTICS FOR BIOLOGISTS
-	BIOINFORMATICS FOR GENETICISTS AND BIOLOGISTS
-	GENETIC DATA ANALYSIS USING R
-	INTRODUCTION TO BIOINFORMATICS USING LINUX
-	INTRODUCTION TO BAYESIAN HIERARCHICAL MODELLING

Oliver Hooker
PR~Statistics

-- 
Oliver Hooker
PR statistics

3/1
128 Brunswick Street
Glasgow
G1 1TF

+44 (0) 7966500340

www.prstatistics.com
www.prstatistics.com/organiser/oliver-hooker/

Oliver Hooker <oliverhooker@prstatistics.com>

