EMBO Practical Course: http://events.embo.org/17-phylogenetics

Tree building: Advanced concepts and practice of phylogenetic analysis

24 - 29 April 2017, Faro, Portugal

*About the practical course*

The use of phylogenetic methods to reconstruct the evolutionary history of
molecular sequences is a vital part of biological research. These methods
underpin studies on the evolution and epidemiology of plant and animal
parasites and disease-causing organisms, and more generally they allow an
objective analysis of the patterns and processes generating biological
diversity. To carry out phylogenetic analysis properly, it is necessary to
have a good understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of the key
methods and approaches. This EMBO Practical Course has been designed to
provide the theoretical and practical skills needed to carry out
state-of-the-art phylogenetic analyses.

The past few years have seen have an explosion in new methods of analysis
including the application of Bayesian analysis methods in phylogeny
reconstruction, the development of improved non-homogeneous models that
much better represent the dynamics of sequence evolution, and the
development of methods for high-throughput genome-wide analyses. This EMBO
Practical Course has been designed to cater for these newest of methods and
for understanding how they relate to the more traditional methods. Our goal
is to teach technical sophistication without losing sight of the need for a
critical attitude to data and analyses.

*Speakers*

Martin Embley - University of Newcastle, UK
Tal Dagan- University of Kiel, Germany
Tom Williams - University of Bristol, UK
Peter Foster - Natural History Museum (London), UK
Naiara Rodriguez-Ezpeleta - AZTI Tecnalia, Spain
Mark Wilkinson - Natural History Museum (London), UK

*Selection criteria*

Participants will be early-career postdoctoral researchers and advanced PhD
students who will be chosen on merit, as judged from a motivational letter
and a CV. The selection procedure will also consider the need to balance
numbers of participants representing different nationalities, to avoid
over-representation from the host country (Portugal), to include a majority
of participants resident in EMBC countries, and to maintain a reasonable
gender balance.

*Abstract guidelines*

Abstract for a 10 minute PowerPoint presentation that each student will
present (200 words)

*Registration fees*

Student/postdocs 200 euros
Academic             300 euros
Industry                300 euros

*Registration includes:*
Accommodation 23rd - 29th April 2017, inclusive (7 nights)
Lunch and coffee each day
Dinner each day, including Welcome Dinner and Gala
Transport to and from UALG campus (Gambelas)
Registration administration
Course materials

(We will try to accommodate all participants in single rooms but due to
availability we have ask for some participants to share.)

*Payment*

Payment of the registration fees will be made by inter-bank transfer after
notification of acceptance.

*Registration deadline*

30 November 2016

*Selected participants will be notified by*

14 November 2016
http://events.embo.org/17-phylogenetics

For informal enquires contact: ccmaratt@ualg.pt

Cymon J. Cox

FCT Investigador - Coordinating Researcher
Plant Systematics and Bioinformatics Research Group (PSB)
Centro de Ciencias do Mar (CCMAR) - CIMAR-Lab. Assoc.

ccmaratt@ualg.pt

