Second Call
Experimental Evolution: Theory and Current Practices

The International Graduate Program in Life Sciences and the 
Interdisciplinary Master in Life Sciences (IMaLis) are now accepting 
applications for the course "Experimental evolution: theory and current 
practices", to be held at the Institute of Biology of the École Normale 
Supérieure (IBENS), in Paris, November 7-11, 2016.

The course will introduce Master and PhD students in Evolutionary 
Biology to the experimental approaches employed to test evolutionary 
theory.  It will bring together world-renowned researchers to lecture on 
topics including the historical development of experimental evolution 
approaches, experimental design, the evolution of sexuality, origin of 
multicellularity and sociality, and the genetic basis of adaptation to 
changing environments. Lectures will be complemented with computer 
tutorials on the analysis of experimental population genomics data.

The course will be restricted to a maximum of 10 students. Meal and 
accommodation costs will be fully covered and there is no registration 
fee. Upon successful completion of the course, European students will be 
awarded 6 ECTS credits.
Faculty: Charlie Baer (University of Florida); Lutz Becks (Max Planck 
Institute for Evolutionary Biology); Ivo Chelo (Instituto Gulbenkian de 
Ciência); Antony Dean (University of Minnesota); Thiago Guzella (IBENS); 
Steve Proulx (University of California, Santa Barbara); Paul Rainey 
(ESPCI and New Zealand Institute for Advanced Study); Christian 
Schlötterer (Institut für Populationsgenetik); Olivier Tenaillon 
(Université Paris 7); Henrique Teotónio (IBENS); Arjan de Visser 
(Wageningen UR).

Sponsoring and partner graduate programs: IBENS, Pepiniere 
interdisciplinaire CNRS-PSL Eco-Evo-Devo, and the Vienna Graduate School 
of Population Genetics.

We will receive applications until September 30, 2016, and selection 
results will be available the following week. Applicants should send a 
letter of motivation and a CV as a single PDF file to: 
teotonio@biologie.ens.fr.

We also welcome participants at any stage of their careers to attend the 
lectures. Meals and accommodation costs will not be covered in this 
case. Registration is required by sending an email to: 
teotonio@biologie.ens.fr. We will accept applications on a first come 
first serve basis, to a maximum of 30.

Further information and updates can be found at 
http://www.gradprog.biologie.ens.fr/

teotonio@biologie.ens.fr

