*Eco-Evolutionary Dynamics in Nature and the Lab*
*Coordinators:* Michael Desai, Anthony Long, Paul Rainey, and Christian
Schlötterer
Location: KITP Santa Barbara, California
Dates: Jul 24, 2017 - Sep 15, 2017
https://www.kitp.ucsb.edu/activities/ecoevo17
Application deadline Sep 25, 2016
A tentative schedule can be found at:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1xZyH2uHLLRqtlTtua8MLphkdBJqanu2yimCaUr2oL8I/edit?usp=sharing

Background:

The diversity of life is shaped by the action of evolutionary forces such
as mutation, recombination, and natural selection. While each of these
forces is well understood in isolation, it is difficult to predict how they
work in combination to shape the evolution of populations and communities.
The ecological richness of natural habitats, which typically involve
numerous interacting species, present further obstacles to detailed
investigations of their evolutionary dynamics. Similar complications are
present even in simple laboratory systems, where initially clonal
populations often quickly diversify. Ecological feedback is thus an
essential element of evolutionary dynamics in both natural and laboratory
settings, while interactions within complex communities are themselves
substrates of evolutionary change.

Technological advances have made the field ripe for exploring new ways to
reconstitute eco-evolutionary dynamics in laboratory models, and for
connecting the insights gained from the lab to observations of diversity in
natural communities. Most strikingly, inexpensive genome sequencing now
makes it possible to characterize evolutionary dynamics and patterns of
diversity in unprecedented detail. This has in turn led to new theoretical
challenges as we attempt to interpret sequence data in the context of
population genetics. The purpose of this program is to bring together
perspectives from different disciplines to forge a new understanding of
eco-evolutionary dynamics in natural and laboratory communities.

Key questions include:

   - How does the interplay between organismic changes and ecological
   interactions drive evolution of diversity? And how does this diversity
   scale with the physical and biological complexities of the environment?
   - How does eco-evolutionary dynamics lead to stable versus unstable and
   chaotic communities? How repeatable are the dynamics, and predictable the
   stable patterns, of community assembly across replicate systems?
   - How does genetic exchange (e.g. horizontal transmission and migration)
   shape the genomic and ecological structure of a community? And what are the
   roles of selection acting on genes, organisms, and communities?
   - How does evolution in sexual organisms (such as *Drosophila* and *C.
   elegans*) fueled by standing genetic variation differ from adaptation
   based on new mutations in largely asexual populations of microbes and
   viruses?

A closely linked Santa Barbara Advanced School of Quantitative Biology
Summer Course will take place from July 24-August 25, 2017.

Christian Schlötterer
Institut für Populationsgenetik
Vetmeduni Vienna
Veterinärplatz 1
1210 Wien
Austria/Europe

phone: +43-1-25077-4300
fax: +43-1-25077-4390
http://www.vetmeduni.ac.at/en/population-genetics/

Vienna Graduate School of Population Genetics
http://www.popgen-vienna.at

Christian Schlötterer <christian.schloetterer@vetmeduni.ac.at>

