Call for Abstracts
Population and Conservation Genomics Workshop
Plant and Animal Genome XXV International Conference
http://www.intlpag.org/

January 14-18, 2017 Town and Country Convention Centre, San Diego,
California

The annual Population and Conservation Genomics workshop will be held at
the Plant and Animal Genome XXV International conference. The workshop is
scheduled on Saturday, January 14, 2017. You are invited to attend this
Workshop and submit abstracts for oral presentations on any population
and conservation genomics aspect of both plants and animals. The topics
may include (but not limited to): population genomic diversity and
structure; molecular evolution; landscape genomics; seascape genomics;
natural selection and local adaptation; population epigenomics; eDNA;
application of genomics in breeding, forensics, biogeography, demography
inferences, and conservation and management of genetic resources;
genomic effects of domestication, management practices, fragmentation,
bottlenecks, climate and environment change, and transgenic deployment;
and gene conservation; etc.

Due to a large number of high quality abstracts received in the recent
years, the workshop time has been extended to two time slots this
year. Thus the workshop has a provision for 12 invited speakers. Most of
the invited presentations will be selected from the submitted abstracts.
Please send your abstract of no more than 250 words by e-mail to Om Rajora
(Om.Rajora@unb.ca) as an attached Word file no later than October 17,
2016. You will be notified by October 24, 2016 whether your abstract
has been selected for an oral presentation. Thereafter, the selected
presenters will need to submit their abstract to the PAG website.
Authors whose abstracts are not selected for oral presentations are
highly encouraged to present a poster at the conference.

Inquiries and Abstract Submission

For information and questions regarding the Population and Conservation
Genomics workshop, please contact Om Rajora at the following coordinates.

Dr. Om P. Rajora, Faculty of Forestry and Environmental Management,
University of New Brunswick, Fredericton, NB E3B 5A3, Canada.

E-mail:  Om.Rajora@unb.ca
Tel: (506) 458-7477
Fax: (506) 453-3538

Om Rajora <om.rajora@unb.ca>

