Dear all,

Please find below the preliminary schedule and general aims of the
course, "An introduction to bioinformatic tools for population
genomic and metagenetic data analysis", offered November 7-11
2016 at the Sven Loven Centre for Marine Sciences on the island
of Tjärnö outside of Strömstad on the Swedish West Coast
(http://loven.gu.se/english/about_the_loven_centre/tjarno).

There is no course fee. Accommodation and meals for students are provided
by the Royal Academy of Sciences of Sweden. Students will need to provide
their own means of transportation to and from the course, however.

The course will be open to a maximum of 18 students, as large parts of
the course will consist of hands-on exercises. The aim is a broad mix
of students both from the University of Gothenburg and from the outside,
mainly PhD students but postdocs are also welcome to apply.

Knowledge of general molecular biology and genetics is necessary,
as is some previous experience with command-line interfaces. Previous
experience working on a remote server will also be beneficial. No previous
bioinformatics skills are needed, however.

For more information and registration, please visit the course web site at:
https://sites.google.com/site/bioinformaticpipelines2016/
Deadline for registration is September 15th 2016.

Please note that ALL students must bring their own computers.

Best wishes,
Pierre De Wit
Sarah Bourlat
-----
An introduction to bioinformatic tools for population
genomic and metagenetic data analysis,
2.5 higher education credits
Third Cycle
Faculty of Science; Department of Marine Sciences
The Swedish Royal Academy of Sciences
_____

1 Confirmation
The syllabus was confirmed by the Steering Committee of the Department
of Marine Sciences 200X-XX-XX, 200X-XX-XX.

Discipline: Natural Science
Responsible department: Department of Marine Sciences
Main fields of study: Bioinformatics

2. Position in the educational system
Elective course; third-cycle education.

3. Entry requirements
Admitted to third cycle education.

4. Course content
This course aims at detailed understanding and hands-on experience of
using state of the art bioinformatics pipelines for one"s own biological
research questions. An important aspect of the course is to show how
genomic data can be applied to address and answer research questions
in the fields of genetics, ecology, population biology, biodiversity
monitoring and conservation. The students will be trained in the latest
bioinformatic methods to analyze high throughput sequencing data,
which is present in many research projects. The course will cover basic
computing tools required to run command line applications, processing
high throughput sequencing data of the CO1 gene from environmental samples
to reveal biodiversity and analysis of sequencing data from whole genome
scans for population genomic studies.

The first part of the course introduces general computing tools for
beginners such as the UNIX command line environment, bash commands, data
formatting using regular expressions and basic scripting in the unix
shell with a series of examples and exercises.  The course introduces
bioinformatics software for analysis of sequence data from metagenetics
(The high-throughput sequencing of a molecular marker from an ecosystem or
a community of organisms, used for large-scale analyses of biodiversity),
through a series of live demonstrations (AmpliconNoise, TaxAssign,
QIIME). The course also introduces basic and advanced concepts of
population genomics data analysis such as genome/transcriptome assembly,
annotation (BLAST), alignment/mapping, differential Gene expression,
functional enrichment tests, SNP genotyping, PCA, outlier tests.

The course corresponds to 1 week of full time studies and and is composed
of lectures, demonstrations and computer labs.

5. Outcomes
1. Knowledge and understanding
1a. Demonstrate advanced knowledge of experimental strategies,
applications and tools of DNA barcoding/metabarcoding and
population genomics.

1b. Demonstrate advanced knowledge of the potential of genomics
approaches to answer ecosystem-wide questions, in particular for
biodiversity monitoring.

2. Skills and abilities
2a. Ability to use basic commands in the Unix command line environment
(reformatting data with regular expressions, basic scripting, running
python scripts from the unix shell)
2b. Ability to use metagenetics software tools to analyse sequence data
from environmental samples (data cleaning steps, clustering of reads into
operational taxonomic units (OTUs) and taxonomic assignment through hidden
markov models and database matching (BLAST, barcode of life database).

2c. Ability to use population genomics software tools to assemble and
annotate a genome/transcriptome, and perform gene alignment/mapping,
differential gene expression, functional enrichment tests, SNP genotyping,
PCA, outlier tests.

3. Judgement and approach
3a. Formulate one's own research questions, identify data and tools needed
to answer these questions and critically evaluate and analyse the results.

6. Required reading
Part 1: General computing tools.

This will be the main textbook for the introduction to general computing
tools:
- Haddock and Dunn (2010). Practical computing for Biologists. Sinauer
  Associates.

Part 2: Population genomics
- deWit et al. (2012). The simple fool's guide to population genomics
  via RNA-seq: an introduction to high-throughput sequencing data
  analysis. Molecular Ecology Resources 12, 1058-1067.

Part 3: Metagenetics
- Bik, H. M., D. L. Porazinska, et al. (2012). "Sequencing our way
  towards understanding global eukaryotic biodiversity." TREE 1485.

- Leray, M. and Knowlton, N. (2015), 'DNA barcoding and metabarcoding of
  standardized samples reveal patterns of marine benthic diversity',
  Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States
  of America, 112 (7), 2076-81.

Online course material
- The simple fool's guide to population genomics via RNA-Seq: an
  introduction to high-throughput sequencing data analysis. Details of
  the pipeline can be found at (http://sfg.stanford.edu
<http://sfg.stanford.edu/>) Practical
  computing for Biologists (http://practicalcomputing.org
<http://practicalcomputing.org/>)
7. Assessment
Attendence is mandatory for a pass grade.

8. Grading scale
The grading scale comprises Fail (U),  and Pass (G).

9. Course evaluation
The course evaluation will be carried out through an online
questionnaire.

         Additional information
Language of instruction will be English, as international guest lecturers
will participate.

11. Preliminary course schedule
Course format: 2.5 hp course, fulltime.

Lecturers: Sarah Bourlat (SB), Pierre de Wit (PDW), Mats Topel (MT)
and Katja Lehmann (KL)
*   Day 1: Introduction to general computing tools (PDW, MT)
Format: 3 hours lecture and demo sessions, 3 hours computer labs,
assigned exercises
Day 1 of the course will be an introduction to general computing tools,
such as the unix command line environment. We will go through bash
commands (less, nano, ls, ll, wc, |, tail, head, mkdir, cat, grep,
for loop), regular expressions, basic scripting, and running python
scripts from the unix shell with a series of examples. Exercises and
assignments will be based on Haddock and Dunn "Practical Computing for
biologists" and can be carried out independently.  There will also be
a presentation of useful bioinformatics software.

Part of day 1 will also be concerned with working on a remote server,
using the University of Gothenburg"s Albiorix cluster as a training
tool. Sudents will be provided with guest accounts.  This portion of
the course is to refresh the students" knowledge of the command line
environment and the shell, a tool for interacting with the computer
through typed instructions at the command line. Exercise sessions will
be carried out in pairs to encourage collaborative problem solving. All
lectures will be made dynamic through live demonstrations of the command
line. Detailed course material including commands and scripts will
be available through the course web page.  This part of the course
corresponds to learning outcome 2a: "Ability to use basic commands
in the Unix command line environment" (reformatting data with regular
expressions, basic scripting, running python scripts from the unix shell)
*   Days 2, 3 and 4: Population Genomics pipeline (PDW)
Format: Lectures and hands on sessions (computer labs)
This part of the course will cover an introductory lecture
and practical session run through of the simple fool's guide to
population genomics via RNA-Seq: an introduction to high-throughput
sequencing data analysis. Details of the pipeline can be found at
(http://sfg.stanford.edu).

Lecture: Population genomics via RNA-seq: an introduction to
high-throughput sequencing data analysis (PDW)
Pratical session: A hands on practical session based on the which
will cover:
Genome/Transcriptome assembly, annotation (BLAST), alignment/mapping,
differential Gene expression, functional enrichment tests, SNP genotyping,
PCA, outlier tests.

The practical session will encourage students to collaborate and work
in pairs to enhance communication and understanding.

Before the course: Students will need to bring their own computers,
with some software pre-installed. Guidelines and download locations for
all software used in the course will be available on the course web page.

This part of the course corresponds to learning outcome 2c: "Ability
to use population genomics software tools to assemble and annotate a
genome/transcriptome, and perform gene alignment/mapping, differential
gene expression, functional enrichment tests, SNP genotyping, PCA,
outlier tests."
*      Day 5: Metagenetic data analysis pipelines (SB, KL)
Format: Lectures and live demonstrations of software
Day 5 will focus on analysis of a high-throughput sequencing dataset
from an environmental sample. This approach allows us to gather novel
data on species composition of a sample for biodiversity analyses. We
will proceed through data cleaning steps, clustering of reads into
operational taxonomic units (OTUs) and taxonomic assignment through
database matching using the QIIME pipeline.

Lecture 1: The potential of metagenomics approaches to answer
ecosystem-wide questions, in particular for biodiversity monitoring (SB).

Demo session: Introduction to taxonomic diversity analysis of 16S amplicon
data using QIIME and R (KL, SB)
This part of the course corresponds to learning outcome 2b: "Ability
to use metagenetics software tools to analyse sequence data from
environmental samples (data cleaning steps, clustering of reads into
operational taxonomic units (OTUs) and taxonomic assignment through hidden
markov models and database matching (BLAST, barcode of life database)".

-----
Pierre De Wit, Ph.D.

University of Gothenburg, Department of Marine Sciences
Sven Lovén Centre for Marine Sciences - Tjärnö
452 96 Strömstad
Sweden
Phone: +46 31 786 9550
http://www.gu.se/english/about_the_university/staff?languageId=100001&userI
d=xdewpi
Pierre de Wit <pierre.de_wit@marine.gu.se>

Pierre de Wit <pierre.de_wit@marine.gu.se>

