Call for Abstracts
Species in the Age of Discordance
University of Utah Department of Philosophy Annual Conference Series
March 23rd - 25th 2017 Salt Lake City, Utah

The University of Utah Department of Philosophy cordially invites
submissions of abstracts or prospecti (up to 1000 words) for paper and
poster presentations at our upcoming conference ?Species in the Age of
Discordance?. Submissions should be prepared for blind review and uploaded
at https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=3Dsitaod2017. Please be sure to
indicate whether your submission is for a paper or a poster. The submission
deadline is Nov. 15, 2016.

Biological lineages move through time, space, and each other. As they do,
they diversify, diverge, and grade away from and into one another. One
result of this is genealogical discordance, i.e., the lineages of a
biological entity may have different histories. We see this on numerous
levels, from microbial networks, to holobionts, to population-level
lineages.

The focus of this project is whether and how genealogical and other sorts
of biological discordance impact our views on species. Other kinds of
relevant discordance might include geographic discordance due to habitat
fragmentation and human mediated dispersal of species in new environments,
discordant government policies which affect populations that straddle or
migrate across international borders, and discordant use of language or
theoretical terms between researchers in different disciplines.

To promote a cross-disciplinary examination of this question, investigators
from a variety of fields will participate in a series of interdisciplinary
meetings. This includes researchers working on phylogenetics, microbiology,
symbiosis, population genetics, taxonomy, philosophy, and history.

The Utah meeting is the first of three meetings on this topic.  Follow up
sessions are tentatively planned for the 2017 Evolution Meeting (Portland,
OR) and the 2017 ISHPSSB Meeting (Sao Paulo, Brazil). The Utah meeting will
be a mix of invited and refereed papers and posters.

For a list of invited speakers, please visit our conference webpage:
http://philosophy.utah.edu/conferences_workshops/species.php

For questions, please contact dan.molter@utah.ed or matt.haber@utah.edu.

*Thanks to the University of Utah Center for Latin American Studies, we
have a limited amount of travel funds available for scholars traveling from
Lain America. Please inquire for availability.

speciesdan@gmail.com

