Workshop in Conservation and Gene Expression.
September 19-23, 2016, Asilomar, CA

Genomic variation has been a recent focus in conservation of rare and
endangered species. However, the immediate response to environmental
challenges will likely be determined by gene expression, which will
constrain the efficacy of response and the likelihood of population
persistence. Nonetheless, gene expression has been poorly studied in
natural populations facing environmental and anthropogenic threats.
This 5-day workshop at Asilomar, a resort on the central California
coast, will focus on providing an overview of the general approaches to
studying gene expression as well as the molecular and analytical tools
needed to initiate and complete a field study. We will be oriented
toward questions regarding the conservation of biodiversity, but the
tools and approaches can be applied to a wide variety of questions. The
topics covered will include: 1) RNA sampling, preservation, extraction
and quantification; 2) library construction and sequencing (RNA-Seq and
reduced representation bisulphite sequencing (RRBS)); 3) filtering,
quality control, mapping of reads to transcriptomes and genomes; and 4)
statistical analysis, mixed linear model, WGCNA, GO analysis, TOA and
TCA (for whole blood samples) and other inference techniques; and 5)
interpretation of results and functional analysis.

See examples:

Charruau et al. (2016) Pervasive effects of aging on gene expression in
wild wolves. Mol Biol Evol.

Koch et al. (2016) The concerted impact of domestication and transposon
insertions on methylation patterns between dogs and gray wolves. Mol
Ecol.

The workshop will not be restricted to taxonomic groups; it will
include examples from plants, invertebrates, and vertebrates.
Applications from University of California graduate and post-graduate
community will receive higher priority as funding is partly due to a UC
president's office catalyst award. However, all applications will be
considered. There will be some special fellowship support for UC
students. The $600 registration includes housing and all meals. Please
apply online below. Space will be limited to 25 students.

Lecturers (two talks from each on a research topic)
Robert Wayne, Matteo Pellegrini, Steve Cole (UCLA), Beth Shapiro
(UCSC), Jenny Tung (Duke U), Steve Palumbi (Stanford U), Bridgett
vonHoldt (Princeton U), Zac Cheveron (U Montana) and Christina Richards
(U South Florida).

Workshop Instructors
Rachel Johnson, Tiffany Armenta, Alice Mouton, Devaughn Fraser,
Gabriela Pinto, Annabel Beichman, Adam Freedman, and Amanda Lee.

Apply to the Workshop in Conservation and Gene Expression here:

https://ucconservationgenomics.eeb.ucla.edu/workshops/

Rachel Meyer <rm181@nyu.edu>

