Recognized international scientists in the evolution and medicine will
be gathered in the 15th edition of the Centre for Genomic Regulation
Symposium that will take place in Barcelona on the 6-7 of October under
the title "Evolution & Medicine" in Barcelona, Spain.

This open meeting will provide a unique opportunity to bring together
researchers and scientists to explore topics in cancer evolution, the
emergence of resistance to antibiotics and other drugs, the origin and
evolution of pathogens, and the evolutionary influence on our own
construction and predisposition to various diseases.

Evolutionary theory forms the basis for our understanding of the
natural world. The development, behaviour and physiology of our own
species has been shaped by million of years of evolution. Furthermore,
the interaction of humans with species that directly affect our health
and survival is constantly being modified by evolutionary forces
through natural or artificial selection.

Registration is now open to the scientific community and can be done
through the CRG Symposium website until September 16th. Participants
are invited to submit their abstracts, a number of which will be
selected for short talks.

You cannot miss this 15th edition of the CRG Symposium! Capacity is
limited, so secure your place early!

Confirmed speakers:

Yegor BAZYKIN, Skolkovo Institute of Science and Technology, Moscow RU

Arturo CASADEVALL, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York USA
Inaki COMAS, Centre for Public Health Research, Genomics and Health,
University of Valencia ES
Nicole MIDEO, Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, University
of Toronto CA
Randolph NESSE, The Center for Evolution & Medicine, Arizona State
University USA
Anna PANCHENKO, National Center for Biotechnology Information, National
Institutes of Health, Bethesda USA
David ROOS, Department of Biology, University of Pennsylvania USA
Shamil SUNYAEV, Division of Genetics, Department of Medicine, Brigham &
Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston USA
Erdal TOPRAK, UT Southwestern Medical Center, Texas USA

Timing and Location of the Meeting:
The Symposium starts on October 6 and finalize October 7. The meeting
will take place at the PRR Auditorium (c/ Aiguader, 88, Barcelona
Spain)

Registration and Costs: Registration is free and Now Open.  Capacity is
limit so first come - first served basis

Abstract submission:  Symposium Organisers invite the submission of
abstracts before 15 July 2016. Just authors of selected abstracts will
be assigned slot to give a short talk during the CRG 2016 Symposium

See CRG website for more information:
http://www.crg.eu/en/content/events/15th-crg-symposium-evolution-and-me
dicine-6-7-october-2016-barcelona-spain

Please contact Laura Prat: laura.prat@crg.eu in case of any doubt.

Laura Prat Busquets <laura.prat@crg.eu>

