This is just a reminder that the Galaxy Community Community Conference
early registration (gcc2016.iu.edu/registration/), and poster and demo
(gcc2016.iu.edu/abstracts/) deadlines are MAY 20.

A draft schedule of conference talks is also now available at
gcc16.sched.org/type/Conference

Please pass this news along to anyone who might be interested in
participating.
The conference announcement is below

------

2016 Galaxy Community Conference (GCC2016)
    gcc2016.iu.edu
    June 25 - 29, 2016
    Indiana University
    Bloomington, Indiana
    United States

The 2016 Galaxy Community Conference (GCC2016, gcc2016.iu.edu)
features two days
of presentations, discussions, poster sessions, lightning talks, computer
demos, keynotes, and birds-of-a-feather meetups, all about data-intensive
biology and the tools that support it. Keynote speaker Yoav Gilad, a
professor of human genetics at the University of Chicago, will kick-start
the main conference with a discussion on the analysis of large gene
regulatory data sets. Pre-conference events include data and coding hackath=
ons,
and two days of training in five concurrent tracks covering 26 topics.

GCC2016 will be held at Indiana University in Bloomington, Indiana, June 25=
-29,
2016.  Since it started seven years ago, GCC has been a
well-attended gathering of biologists, genome researchers, bioinformatician=
s,
and others in data-intensive biomedical research around the world.

Galaxy is an open, web-based platform for data-intensive biomedical researc=
h
and enables easy interactive analysis through the web on arbitrarily large
data sets. The Galaxy framework is a major resource in achieving key
research goals within the biological field. It provides next-generation
sequencing (NGS) tools and workflows for short-read mapping, ChIP-seq,
RNA-seq, metagenomics, variant analysis, visualization, and support for
Galaxy in the cloud. There are hundreds of local installs, and over 80
publicly accessible servers around the world.

Abstract submission for posters and computer demonstrations closes May 20.

Early registration also ends May 20. Registration starts at less than
$45/day for post-docs and students. Registering early assures you a place
at the conference and also a spot in the training workshops you want to
attend. You can also book conference housing when you register.

Thanks, and we hope to see you in Bloomington!

The GCC2016 Exec

Dave Clements <clements@galaxyproject.org>

