Next-Generation Summer Course in Environmental Genomics at the Mount
Desert Island Biological Lab

A technical course to guide research into how environmental conditions
affect gene responses and the fitness of organisms

Date: July 30 to August 6, 2016.
Number of participants: Restricted to 25.
Only $300 registration fee!

We are pleased to announce that this course is now supported by the
National Institutes of Health through the Big Data To Knowledge (BD2K)
Program. Therefore, scholarships are available for US citizens or
permanent residents, including room and board.

https://mdibl.org/course/envgen-2016/

The faculty at MDIBL is pleased to again offer a training course
in Environmental Genomics, aiming to better understand technologies
and approaches used to discover how gene function is influenced by
environmental conditions while accounting for variation that exists
within and among natural populations. This course is built on the
paradigm that the research field will most effectively grow by properly
designing large-scale experiments enabled by drastically increased
sample-throughput and lower sequencing costs. Most importantly, the
bioinformatics challenges of manipulating and analysing population-level
genomics data must be addressed.  

This course is designed to train the next-generation of environmental
scientists, which have included in past years: university professors,
postdoctoral researchers, doctoral students and government scientists,
representing institutions from North America and Europe. Most responded in
the departure survey that the course curriculum, choice of technologies,
and effectiveness provided sufficient training to either begin or enlarge
an environmental genomics project in their own laboratories. All reported
that they would recommend this course to a colleague.

This course trains researchers to design studies, and to collect
and analyse RNA-Seq gene expression data. Daphnia is used for training
because of its growing use as a model system for environmental genomics
and for improving environmental health protection, yet the skills learned
during the course will be applicable to all study systems with maturing
genomics resources. Much time is devoted to guiding the current and
future projects of attendees.

Ultimately, participants will be better positioned to incorporate
these technologies into their own research laboratories, while better
understanding how functional genomics and automation can be applied to
ecology, evolution and environmental toxicology. 

Mount Desert Island Biological Laboratory
Old Bar Harbor Rd., Salisbury Cove, ME 04672
MDIBL - http://www.mdibl.or

j.k.colbourne@bham.ac.uk

