We are pleased to invite you to attend the ConGen-2 course & workshop (see 
http://www.umt.edu/sell/cps/congen/)!

ConGen-2: Landscape Genomics & Genetic Monitoring Course:

"Applications of Next Gen Sequencing Data to Understand Population
Connectivity, Adaptation, and Environmental Influences on Genomic
Variation"

September 5-10, 2016, Flathead Lake Biological Station, Montana

Early bird registration before the 15th of June 2015

Instructors include: Fred Allendorf, Tiago Antao, Brian Hand, Paul
Hohenlohe, Marty Kardos, Tabatha Graves, Gordon Luikart, Garret McKinney,
Mike Miller, Mike Schwartz, Robin Waples, Diane Whited, and more.

[dinner at McD (Large)]

ConGen 2013 - dinner by the lake

Objective: To provide training in conceptual and practical aspects of
data analysis for the population and evolutionary genomics of natural
and managed populations. Emphasis will be on next generation sequence
data analysis (RADs, exon capture, and whole genome sequence analyses)
and interpretation of output from recent novel statistical approaches and
software programs. The course also will allow daily discussions among
young researchers (student participants) and >10 leaders in population
genomics (instructors) to help develop the next generation of conservation
and evolutionary geneticists.  We will identify and discuss developments
needed to improve data analysis approaches. This course will cover
analysis methods including the coalescent, Bayesian, approximate Bayesian,
and likelihood-based approaches.  Most the material and activities
will be different from ConGen 2015 including an emphasis on monitoring
diversity, effective size and connectivity, as well as landscape
genomics, and detecting effects of environmental variation on genomics
variation (http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/mec.13647/full ;
and see: Andrews and Luikart 2014, Molecular Ecology, 23:1661-7. doi:
10.1111/mec.12686).

Who should apply: Advanced undergrads, graduate students, post-docs,
faculty, and population biologists with a background of at least one
semester university-level course in population genetics and a course in
population ecology.  Applicants must have a basic background in population
genetic data analysis, including testing for Hardy-Weinberg proportions
and gametic disequilibrium. Participation will be limited to 25-30 people
allowing efficient instruction with hands-on computer exercises during the
course.  Priority will be given to persons with their own data to analyze.

"Luikart, Gordon" <gordon.luikart@mso.umt.edu>

