Landscape Genomics & Genetic Monitoring Course: ConGen-2: "Applications
of Next Gen Sequencing Data

to Understand Population Connectivity, Local Adaptation, and Environmental
Influences on Genomic Variation"

September 5-10, 2016, Flathead Lake Biological Station, Montana;  Early
bird registration before the June 15th

14 Instructors include: Fred Allendorf, Tiago Antao, Brian Hand, Paul
Hohenlohe, Marty Kardos, Tabatha Graves,

Jeff Good, Gordon Luikart, Garret McKinney, Mike Miller, Mike Schwartz,
Robin Waples, Diane Whited, and more.

[dinner at McD (Large)]

ConGen 2013 - dinner by the lake

Objective: To provide training in conceptual and practical aspects of
data analysis for the population and evolutionary genomics of natural
and managed populations.

Emphasis will be on next generation sequence data analysis (RADs, exon
capture, and whole genome sequence analyses) and interpretation of output
from recent novel statistical approaches and software programs.

The course also will allow daily discussions among young researchers
(student participants) and >12 leaders in population genomics
(instructors) to help develop the next generation of conservation and
evolutionary geneticists.

Most material will be different from ConGen 2015 including an emphasis on
monitoring diversity and effective size (& Nb), connectivity & landscape
genomics to detect effects of environmental variation on genomics
variation, linkage mapping to help detect selection, simulations &
power analysis for study design, WGS vs RADs for quantifying runs of
homozygosity (RoH), filtering reads (the F-word!) & calling haplotype
from RAD data (http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/mec.13647/full
;  and see: Andrews and Luikart 2014, Molecular Ecology, 23:1661-7. doi:
10.1111/mec.12686).

Who should apply: Advanced Undergrads, Ph.D. students, post-docs,
faculty, and population biologists with a background of at least one
semester university-level course in population genetics and a course in
population ecology.  Applicants must have a basic background in population
genetic data analysis, including testing for Hardy-Weinberg proportions
and gametic disequilibrium. Participation will be limited to 25-30 people
allowing efficient instruction with hands-on computer exercises during the
course.  Priority will be given to persons with their own data to analyze.

For detailed information (on instructors etc.) see
http://www.umt.edu/sell/cps/congen/

"Luikart, Gordon" <gordon.luikart@mso.umt.edu>

