Dear colleagues,

There are a few places still available for the course "From Phenotype to
Genotype: The Genetic Bases of Shape - 3rd Edition"; September 6-9, 2016.

Instructors: Dr. Neus Martínez-Abadías (Centre for Genomic Regulation, Spain)
and Dr. Nicolas Navarro (École Pratique des Hautes Études, France).

Site:  Premises of Sabadell of the Institut Catalá de Paleontologia Miquel
Crusafont (Barcelona, Spain).

Course Webpage: http://www.transmittingscience.org/courses/gen/quant-gen-shape/

The aim of this course is to provide participants with an overview of
quantitative genetics, with specific application to shape analysis and
decomposition of phenotypic variation into components of genetic and
environmental variation. The basic theoretical concepts of resemblance between
relatives, heritability, estimates of selection, and geometric morphometrics
will be introduced. Practical lessons will enable participants to learn to use
user-friendly (and not so user-friendly) software packages to estimate
heritability, phenotypic and genetic variance covariance matrices, response to
hypothetical selection, actual selection and QTL mapping.

Participants are encouraged to bring their own data for analysis and discussion
in the course. Morphometric data involves any kind of quantitative shape data
collected on individuals, such as linear measurements and/or 2D or 3D landmark
coordinates. Pedigree files usually consist of text files with a list of three
columns (individual ID, father ID, mother ID). Specific details about formatting
these files will be provided during the practical lessons.

This course is co-organized by Transmitting Science and the Institut Catalá de
Paleontologia M. Crusafont. Place are limited and will be covered by strict
registration order.

Please feel free to distribute this information between your colleagues if you
consider it appropriate.

With best regards

Sole

Soledad De Esteban-Trivigno, PhD.
Scientific Director
Transmitting Science
www.transmittingscience.org

soledad.esteban@transmittingscience.org

