Workshop:Denver_CO.EvolutionInCognition.July21

Evolution in Cognition Workshop
July 21
to be held as part of the

2016 Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference (GECCO-2016)
 July 20-24, Denver, Colorado, USA

Organized by ACM SIGEVO
  http://gecco-2016.sigevo.org

Webpage: http://lis2.epfl.ch/events/workshops/GECCO2016/
 Submission Deadline extended: April 12th, 2016

=== Topic =Evolution by natural selection has shaped life over billions of years
leading to the emergence of complex organism capable of exceptional
cognitive abilities. These natural evolutionary processes have inspired
the development of Evolutionary Algorithms (EAs), which are optimization
algorithms widely popular due to their efficiency and robustness. Beyond
their ability to optimize, EAs have also proven to be creative and
efficient at generating innovative solutions to novel problems. The
combination of these two abilities makes them a tool of choice for the
resolution of complex problems.

Even though there is evidence that the principle of selection on
variation is at play in the human brain, as proposed in Changeux's and
Edelman's models of Neuronal Darwinism, and more recently expanded
in the theory of Darwinian Neurodynamics by Szathmáry, Fernando and
others, not much attention has been paid to the possible interaction
between evolutionary processes and cognition over physiological time
scales. Since the development of human cognition requires years of
maturation, it can be expected that artificial cognitive agents will
also require months if not years of learning and adaptation. It is in
this context that the optimizing and creative abilities of EAs could
become an ideal framework that complement, aid in understanding, and
facilitate the implementation of cognitive processes. Additionally, a
better understanding of how evolution can be implemented as part of an
artificial cognitive architecture can lead to new insights into cognition
in humans and other animals.

The goals of the workshop are to depict the current state of the art
of evolution in cognition and to sketch the main challenges and future
directions. In particular, we aim at bringing together the different
theoretical and empirical approaches that can potentially contribute to
the understanding of how evolution and cognition can act together in an
algorithmic way in order to solve complex problems. In this workshop
we welcome approaches that contribute to an improved understanding of
evolution in cognition using robotic agents, in silico computation as
well as mathematical models.

Keywords: Evolutionary Computation, Evolution, Cognition, Darwinian
Neurodynamics, Neuronal Darwisnism, robotics.

=== Invited speakers =	-	Prof. Eörs Szathmary
	-	Prof. Jeff Krichmar
	-	Prof. Arne Dietrich

=== Organizers =	-	Prof. Stéphane Doncieux, University Pierre and Marie Curie, France
	-	Dr. Joshua Auerbach, EPFL, Switzerland
	-	Prof. Richard Duro, Universidade da Coruna, Spain
	-	Dr. Harold P. de Vladar, Parmenides Foundation, Germany

=== Workshop format This is a half day workshop with invited talks and a session dedicated to
posters, videos and demonstrations. The session will start with a short
teaser of posters and demonstrations. Videos will also be displayed
afterwards.

=== Submissions and deadlines =Submission: extended abstracts (2-4 pages) following ACM template should
be sent in electronic form (pdf) to eic_2016@isir.upmc.fr
	-	April 3rd, 2016: Papers Submission Deadline
	-	April 20th, 2016: Notification of Acceptance
	-	May 4th, 2016: Camera-Ready Paper Submission
	-	July 21st, 2016: Workshop

Each accepted abstract will be presented in one or more of the following
formats:
	-	poster
	-	2-minutes video
	-	demonstration

Your submission email should specify in which of these formats you would
like to present.

Original works, position papers as well as overviews of author's recent
work are all welcome.

All abstracts will be included in the GECCO workshop proceedings, unless
explicitly required by the authors (for copyright reason, for instance).

GECCO is sponsored by the Association for Computing Machinery Special
Interest Group on Genetic and Evolutionary Computation (SIGEVO). SIG
Services: 2 Penn Plaza, Suite 701, New York, NY, 10121, USA,
1-800-342-6626 (USA and Canada) or +212-626-0500 (Global).

Stéphane Doncieux, Josh Auerbach, Richard Duro and Harold P. de Vladar

Harold P. de Vladar

Center for the Conceptual Foundations of Science.
Parmenides Foundation.
Kirchplatz 1, 82049 Pullach, Germany

hpvladar.wordpress.com
www.parmenides-foundation.org

"Harold P. de Vladar" <Harold.Vladar@parmenides-foundation.org>

