  We are pleased to announce an international conference on 
"Understanding diversity in telomere dynamics" in Edinburgh, 31st Oct - 
3rd November.

In recent years, there has been a burgeoning of interest in how telomere 
dynamics vary across species and in whether this variation has its roots 
in, or constrains, the evolution of life histories. The aim of this 
meeting is to bring together biologists from different backgrounds, and 
at different career stages, with research interests in the causes and 
consequences of variation in telomere length. The meeting forms part of 
a workshop series conducted as part of an international network on 
telomere dynamics, funded by the Leverhulme Trust. The organisers are 
Pat Monaghan (University of Glasgow) and Dan Nussey (University of 
Edinburgh). Topics to be covered will include:

How best to measure variation in telomere length across species and 
individuals
Environmental and genetic sources of variation in telomere length
Telomeres and the ageing process
How variation in telomere loss and restoration relates to life history 
variation

Plenary speakers:
Vera Gorbunova (University of Rochester, USA)
Pat Monaghan (University of Glasgow, UK)
Jerry Shay (University of Texas Southwestern Medical Centre, USA)
Abraham Aviv (Rutgers New Jersey Medical School, USA)

Timing and Location of the Meeting:
The conference will take place at the Best Western Kings Manor Hotel, on 
the outskirts of Edinburgh. The conference will be residential, with 
costs including full bed and board over the two days of the meeting. We 
will start with dinner, followed by talks/discussion on the evening of 
Monday 31st October 2016, followed by two full days of talks and 
discussion, ending with breakfast and departure on the morning of 
Thursday 3rd November.

Costs: The cost of attending the meeting (which will include all 
registration costs, overnight accommodation for 3 nights (Mon, Tues & 
Wed) plus breakfast, lunch and dinner for the duration of the meeting) 
is 375 per person. Some assistance with travel costs may be available, 
particularly for PhD students - contact the organisers for more information.

Presenting at the Meeting: Slots will be available for short talks (15 
min + 5 mins questions) and highlight presentations (5 mins, maximum 2 
slides). Abstracts can be submitted via the registration site below.

Registration: Spaces at the conference are limited to 80 and the 
registration deadline is 30th June. Please note that we will allocate 
space on a first come - first served basis and registration will close 
early if all spaces are filled. You can register via our EventBrite 
webpage:

http://telomerediversity.eventbrite.co.uk

For more information, please contact Mary Ryan: mary.ryan@glasgow.ac.uk

We look forward to seeing many of you there!

Best Wishes,

Dan Nussey & Pat Monaghan.

-- 
The University of Edinburgh is a charitable body, registered in
Scotland, with registration number SC005336.

"dnussey@staffmail.ed.ac.uk" <dnussey@staffmail.ed.ac.uk>

