Please note, the application period has been extended until 8th April 2016.

Please apply to ccmaratt@ualg.pt

------

ADVERTISEMENT WEBSITE: http://att.ccmar.ualg.pt/statistical_genetics_2016

WORKSHOP IN STATISTICAL GENETICS - taught by BRUCE WEIR - Professor of
Biostatistics, and Director of the Institute of Public Health Genetics at
the University of Washington. Bruce Weir is the author of the textbook
"Genetic Data Analysis" (3rd edition in preparation) and he has directed
the Summer Institute in Statistical Genetics since 1996.
http://www.gs.washington.edu/faculty/weir.htm,
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=Bruce+Weir

DESCRIPTION: A unified treatment for the analysis of discrete genetic data,
starting with estimates and sample variances of allele frequencies to
illustrate genetic vs statistical sampling and Bayesian approaches. A
detailed look at Hardy-Weinberg and linkage disequilibrium, including the
use of exact tests with mid-p-values and a new look at X-chromosome
Hardy-Weinberg testing. A new characterization of population structure with
F-statistics, based on allelic matching within and between populations with
individual relationship estimation as a special case. Analyses illustrated
with applications to forensic science and association mapping, with
particular reference to rare variants.

VENUE: Centre of Marine Sciences, University of the Algarve, Faro,
Portugal. http://ccmar.ualg.pt - Google maps: https://goo.gl/cM78fp

DATE: 8th-9th September 2016

FORMAT: 2-day workshop, lectures and hands-on practical sessions (attendees
will need to bring laptops). The course is equivalent to 3 European ECTS
credits.

INTENDED AUDIENCE: PhD students, post-doctoral and advanced researchers
(but no formal restriction)

REGISTRATION FEE: 240 euro

Registration does not include travel and lodging. Faro has an international
airport located 4 km from the Gambelas Campus of the University of Algarve
where the course will take place.

HOW TO APPLY: Applications in the form of a CV and motivational letter
should be sent to ccmaratt@ualg.pt by *8th April 2016*. Applicants will
be selected on merit and successful applicants will be informed by 10th
April 2016.

SCHOLARSHIPS: At least 2 scholarships to cover registration fees will be
awarded to PhD students; applicants should indicate if they would like to
be considered and must send proof of student status.

ACCOMMODATION: Recommended: Hotel Aeromar at Faro beach (
http://www.aeromar.net/en) has temporarily reserved (until 31st May) and
discounted 8 double rooms, priced 62.5 euro and 80 euro, double and single
occupancy, respectively (mention CCMAR reservation when booking).
Additional accommodation at the beach and in Faro centre:
http://goo.gl/mgG85g. A minibus service will run between the beach, town
centre, and campus.

CONTACTS:
Ester Serrão - Assistant Professor, UALG/CCMAR - eserrao@ualg.pt
Cymon J. Cox - FCT Coordinating Researcher, CCMAR - cymon@ualg.pt

Advanced Technologies and Training programme @ CCMAR 2016
ccmaratt@ualg.pt <ccmaratt@ccmar.ualg.pt>,
att.ccmar.ualg.pt/statistical_genetics_2016

The Centre of Marine Sciences (Centro de Ciências do Mar, CCMAR) is an
independent multidisciplinary, non-profit institute located on the Gambelas
campus of the University of the Algarve in Faro with ~250 members and a
mission to promote research and education in the marine sciences. Faro (
http://www.algarve-tourist.com/Faro-portugal-guide.html) is the capital
city of the Algarve region of southern Portugal and borders the Ria Formosa
National Park (http://www.formosamar.com/en). The Algarve (
http://www.visitalgarve.pt/?idioma=uk) boasts > 300 days of sun per year,
stunning beaches and mountain vistas, opportunities for diving, golf, and
other sporting activities, and a unique traditional regional cuisine (esp.
seafood). A variety of optional social activities will be organised to
coincide with the course and special events can be organised upon request
for participants and/or accompanying persons (diving, surf, stand-up
paddle, windsurf, kayaking, horse-riding, tennis, bird-watching, nature
walks, boat guided tours, fishing, etc).

Bruce Weir - Recent Publications:

Zhu ZH, Bakshi1 A, Vinkhuyzen AAE, Hemani G, Lee SH, Nolte IM,  van
Vliet-Ostaptchouk JV,  Snieder H, The LifeLines Cohort Study,  Esko T,
Milani L, Mägi R,  Metspalu A,  Hill WG,  Weir BS, Goddard ME, Visscher PM,
Yang J. 2015. Dominance genetic variation contributes little to the missing
heritability for human complex traits. American Journal of Human Genetics
96:377-385.

Wasser SK, Brown L, Mailand C, Mondol S, Clark W, Laurie C, Weir BS. 2015.
Genetic assignment of large seizures of elephant ivory reveals Africa's
major poaching hotspots. Science 349:84-87.

Graffelman J, Nelson S, Gogarten SM, Weir BS. 2015. Exact Inference for
Hardy-Weinberg proportions with missing genotypes: Single and multiple
imputation. G3 (Genes, Genomes, Genetics) 5:2365-2373.

Weir BS, Zheng X. 2015. SNPs and SNVs in Forensic Science. Forensic Science
International: Genetics Supplement Series 5:e267-e268.

Zheng X, Weir BS. 2015. Eigenanalysis of SNP data with an interpretation of
identity by descent. Theoretical Population Biology 107:65-76.

Conomos MP, Reiner AP, Weir BS, Thornton TA. 2016. Model-free estimation of
recent genetic relatedness. American Journal of Human Genetics 98:127-148.

Conomos MP, Laurie CA, Stilp AM, Gogarten SM, McHugh CP, Nelson SC, Sofer
T, Fernandez-Rhodes L, Justice E, Graff M, Young KL, Seyerle AA, Avery CL,
Taylor KD, Rotter JT, Talavera GA, Daviglus ML Wassertheil-Smoller S,
Schneiderman N, Heiss G, Kaplan RC, Franceschini N, Reiner AP, Shaffer JR,
Barr RG,  Kerr KF, Browning SR, Browning BL, Weir BS,  Aviles-Santa ML,
Papanicolaou GJ, Lumley T, Szpiro AA, North KE,  Rice K, Thornton TA,
Laurie CC. 2016. Genetic diversity and association studies in U.S.
Hispanic/Latino populations: Applications in the Hispanic Community Health
Study/Study of Latinos. American Journal of Human Genetics 98:165-184.

Schick UM, Jan D, Hodonsky CJ, Morrison JV, Dvis JP, Brown L, Sofer T,
Conomos MP, Schumann C, McHugh CP, Nelson SC, Vadiamudi S, Stilp A,
Plantinga A, Baier L, Bien SA, Gogarten SM, Laurie CA, Taylor KD, Liu Y,
Auer PL, Franceschini N, Szpiro A, Rice K, Kerr KF, Roter JI, Hanson RL,
Papanicolaou, Rich SS, Loos RJF, Browing BL, Browning SR, Weir BS, Laurie
CC, Mohike KL, North KE, Thornton TA, Reiner AP. 2016. Genome-wide
association study of platelet count identifies ancestry-specific loci in
Hispanic/Latino Americans. American Journal of Human Genetics 98:229-242.

Curran JM, Weir BS. 2016. Modern methods of DNA interpretation. Chance (in
press)

Graffelman J, Weir BS. 2016. Testing for Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium at
bi-allelic genetic markers on the X chromosome. 2016. Heredity (in press)

Buckleton JS, Curran JM, Goudet J, Taylor D, Thiery A, Weir BS. 2016.
Population-specific Fst values: A worldwide survey. Forensic Science
International: Genetics (in press).

-- 

Cymon J. Cox

FCT Investigador - Coordinating Researcher
Plant Systematics and Bioinformatics Research Group (PSB)
Centro de Ciencias do Mar (CCMAR) - CIMAR-Lab. Assoc.
<http://orcid.org/0000-0002-4927-979X>

cymon.cox@googlemail.com

