Florida State University (FSU) in Tallahassee, Florida, is pleased to
host the 20th Biennial Ecological and Evolutionary Ethology of Fishes
(EEEF) Meeting. The meeting will be held on the Florida State campus, with
hotel accommodations nearby.  Please see https://marinelab.fsu.edu/eeef/
for more information.

Early Registration deadline is 29 April 2016. Graduate student travel
grants are available.

The meeting is organized around four primary themes: Population
genomics of fishes (Organizer:  Joe Travis); Sensory ecology, movement
patterns, and behavior (Organizer: Nathan Putman); Species Interactions
(Organizer:Chip  Cotton); Biodiversity: Discovery, Variation &
Conservation (Organizer: Colette St. Mary).  While you're here,
you'll experience Florida's local seafood and microbreweries. Social
events include a welcome reception, a Cocktail & Posters Session, and
a closing reception at a local watering hole.  We hope that you will
also consider hanging around for a while either before or after the
meeting to take advantage of some of the wonderful natural areas of
this region. E. O Wilson describes the Florida panhandle as one of the
richest biodiversity hotspots in North America. It absolutely is like
nowhere else in the state, with incredible National Natural Landmarks
that include the Florida Caverns, Wakulla Springs, and Torreya State Park
along the Apalachicola River. For those seeking more rigorous activities,
you can hike the Florida Trail, paddle the pristine Wacissa River, or
bike the Tallahassee-St. Marks Historic Railroad State Trail. There are
countless outdoor adventures in the region. Beach goers might want to
visit St. George Island State Park and visit historic Apalachicola.

Kimberly A. Hughes
Professor
Department of Biological Science
Florida State University
319 Stadium Drive
Tallahassee, Florida 32306-4295

Ph:  850-645-8553
FAX: 850-645-8447
Office:  4062 King Life Sciences Building
http://www.bio.fsu.edu/faculty-hughes.php

"kahughes@bio.fsu.edu" <kahughes@bio.fsu.edu>

