Announcing the 2016 Gordon Research Conference and Seminar on Marine
Microbes:

Marine Microbes GRC
The Evolution, Nature and Function of Microbial Interactions

The theme of this Conference is "Evolution, nature and function of
microbial interactions". Marine/aquatic microbes live in diverse
environments and individual cells and communities face strong ecological
and evolutionary pressures on different spatial and temporal scales. In
such a complex world, microbial interactions critically drive the evolution
of diverse life styles, genome structure, and cellular response that shape
their ecology and impact on biogeochemical cycles. The Conference will
present and rigorously discuss concepts and ideas at the forefront of
molecular microbial ecology and evolution in order to elucidate the nature
and role of diverse interactions among microbes in all three domains of
life (Archaea, Bacteria and Eukarya) and how it shapes the functioning of
complex biological systems in diverse marine (oceans, seas) and aquatic
(lakes, rivers, ice) environments. The Conference also aims to include
cutting-edge research from diverse fields (biomedical, mathematics,
modeling) relevant to the broad diversity of marine microbes (bacteria,
archaea, phytoplankton, protists, and viruses). The Conference will feature
presentations of unpublished work by investigators at the forefront of the
field in and will provide opportunities for junior scientists, postdocs,
and graduate students to present their work in poster format and exchange
ideas with leaders in the field. A collegial atmosphere will be fostered
through extensive discussion sessions and daily opportunities for informal
gatherings in the afternoons and evenings, providing an ideal setting for
scientists from different disciplines to exchange ideas, brainstorm and
discuss cross-disciplinary collaborations.

June 19-24, 2016
PGA Catalunya Business and Convention Centre
Girona, Spain

Chair: Catherine Legrand

Web site: http://www.grc.org/programs.aspx?id=13275

Online application: http://www.grc.org/application.aspx?id=13275

---

Additionally, a Gordon Research Seminar will be held in conjunction with
the above GRC. What is a GRS? Gordon Research Seminars (GRS) are a series
of unique 2-day meetings held in conjunction with an associated GRC that
enable graduate students, post-docs, and other scientists with comparable
levels of experience to come together in a highly-stimulating and
non-intimidating environment to discuss their current research and build
informal networks with their peers. The seminars are organized by young
investigators with the support of leading scientists from the associated
GRC.The Marine Microbes GRS is scheduled to take place from June 18-19,
2016 at PGA Catalunya Business and Convention Centre, Girona, Spain.

Marine Microbes GRS
Microbe Coexistence and Coevolution in a Changing Ocean

The Gordon Research Seminar on Marine Microbes is a unique forum for
graduate students, post-docs, and other scientists with comparable levels
of experience and education to present and exchange new data and cutting
edge ideas.

Marine microorganisms interact constantly among themselves and with other
members of the trophic network. These interactions define their
evolutionary fate and underlie the biogeochemical fluxes that will drive
ecological processes in current and future oceans. The seminar will bring
together microbial ecologists and evolutionary biologists to discuss and
debate about where, when and why marine microbes interact, who are the main
players mediating these processes, and what will be the resulting
evolutionary and ecological outputs.

Chairs: Javier del Campo & Bryndan Durham

Web site: http://www.grc.org/programs.aspx?id=15346

Online application: http://www.grc.org/application.aspx?id=15346

---

Applications for this meeting must be submitted by May 21, 2016. Please
apply early, as some meetings become oversubscribed (full) before this
deadline. Note: Applications for oversubscribed meetings will only be
considered by the Conference Chair if more seats become available due to
cancellations.

Javier del Campo <javier.delcampo@botany.ubc.ca>

