SMBE2016: Ancient DNA and the effects of human innovation on genomes - 
Gold Coast, Australia, July 3rd-7th 2016

Dear colleagues ,

We would like to invite you to join a symposium on ancient DNA and the 
effects of human innovation to be held at Annual Meeting of the Society 
for Molecular Biology and Evolution (SMBE) in Gold Coast, Australia this 
July. PLEASE NOTE that the abstract submission deadline and the early 
bird registration deadline have been extended to April 29^th midnight 
(Eastern Australian time).

Invited speakers of the symposium are Christina Warinner (University of 
Oklahoma) and Wolfgang Haak (MPI-SHH Jena/University of Adelaide).

Symposium description:

Human innovation - such as the invention of the wheel, the use of boats 
and the Neolithic revolution - led to major migrations as well as 
changes in lifestyle throughout history. Humans encountered new 
ecosystems, domesticated plants and animals, and were faced with new 
pathogens. These changes did not just affect the genome of our species, 
but also the genomes of a number of the species around us. Examples of 
such effects include the development of domesticated species, the 
extinction of wild fauna, the strong selective sweep causing lactase 
persistence, and human population growth as well as admixture among 
populations during secondary contact. Inferring past events from modern 
populations has its limitations, but the technological revolution in the 
field of ancient genomics offers the unique opportunity to study 
populations before, during and after these events. Using the temporal 
data provided by ancient DNA, a population's demographic history, the 
general development of genetic diversity as well as allele frequencies 
at particular candidate loci can be studied. This symposium will gather 
researchers working on the population history of humans, animals, plants 
and other organisms as well as their interactions using ancient DNA. 
Bringing these people together will start fruitful discussions among 
researchers who study the same processes but who approach them from 
different angles. Particularly abstracts addressing the following 
questions will be selected:

(i) What migration routes were taken and how did these population 
movements shape the modern day population diversity?

(ii) Were domesticated animals and plants accompanying the movements?

(iii) Has human innovation caused specific changes in the genomes of the 
species involved?

(iv) What impact did the migrants have on wild flora and fauna?

(v) How did pathogens shape the genetic setup of human and animal 
populations?

Looking forward to see you in Australia,

Cristina Valdiosera (La Trobe University, Australia)

Emma Svensson (Uppsala University, Sweden)

Helena Malmström (Uppsala University, Sweden)

Torsten Günther (Uppsala University, Sweden)

//

tguenther@zoho.com

