Dear colleagues,

We are pleased to announce the symposium "Structural variation in the light
of new sequencing technologies" as part of the July 2016 SMBE meeting in
Gold Coast, Australia. We encourage you to submit your abstracts for oral
presentations before April 22 (http://smbe2016.org/).

INVITED SPEAKERS:
Esther Betrán (The University of Texas at Arlington)
Tomas Marques-Bonet (Institut Biologia Evolutiva, Universitat Pompeu
Fabra/CSIC, Barcelona)

ORGANIZERS:
Arcadi Navarro, Diego Hartasanchez, Marina Brasó-Vives and Josephine Daub 
(Institut Biologia Evolutiva, Universitat Pompeu Fabra/CSIC, Barcelona,
Spain)
Hideki Innan (The Graduate University for Advanced Studies, Hayama, Japan)

SUMMARY:
Structural variation, including segmental duplications, copy-number
variation and inversions, constitute a substantial part of variation in the
genomes of humans and other species. Structural variation plays a
significant role in evolution, since it can lead to large-scale functional
innovation. A better knowledge of the way structural variants arise and
evolve, is helping us to understand how they relate to phenotypes that are
relevant for both human health and the evolution of our lineage. For this
reason, mapping the position of structural variants, obtaining their
sequences, annotating their functional contents and understanding their
dynamics has gained much interest in the scientific community.
Until recently, questions regarding structural variation have been difficult
to answer given the limitations of short-read technologies and the relative
scarcity of theoretical and numerical tools. New sequencing methods, such as
single molecule real time sequencing (SMRT), allow us to gain more insight
into the molecular evolution of structural variation. Novel approaches to
exploit long-read technologies and data sets have already produced various
results on intra and inter-specific copy-number variation and on differences
within structural variants themselves. Additionally, recent methodological
advances allow novel insights into data.
With this symposium we aim to address how the latest sequencing methods,
analytical approaches and data sets can further improve our understanding of
the role of structural variation in evolution.

We look forward to seeing you in Australia!

Josephine Daub
Postdoctoral Researcher

Evolutionary Genomics Lab
Institut de Biologia Evolutiva (UPF- CSIC)
c/ Dr Aiguader 88
08003 Barcelona
email: josephine.daub@upf.edu

"josephine.daub@upf.edu" <josephine.daub@upf.edu>

