Subject: Portugal-cE3c-Course: two advanced courses with deadlines May 2016 
cE3c - Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Changes is
organizing several Advanced Courses: see below the two with closer
deadlines.

Additional informations at:
http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/?cat=1

cE3c - Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Changes
Advanced Course Natural History Collections and Biodiversity taught by
Maria Judite Alves, Raquel Barata, Cristiane Bastos-Silveira et al. |
May 30 - June 3 @ Lisbon, Portugal

Objectives Natural history museums are privileged spaces for seminal
research on different subjects of biological sciences such as
biodiversity, evolution, ecology, biogeography and taxonomy. This
crucial role is due to the fact that they represent biological diversity
repositories becoming huge libraries of information on Earth living
organisms. The long-term sampling through various decades renders to
natural history collections an historic perspective that allows
reconstructing a "memory", sometimes secular, of natural patterns
and processes. This aspect gains particular relevance nowadays because
of the increasing rate of species extinctions and biodiversity decrease.
This course aims to:
- evidence the importance of natural history collections for the study
  of biodiversity.
- show new tools and approaches to extract and disseminate biodiversity
  data from natural history collections
- increase awareness of young researchers for the scientific and culture
  value of Natural History Museums.

Course coordinator
Maria Judite Alves (mjalves@fc.ul.pt)
Researcher at the Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental
Changes (cE3c), Faculty of Sciences of the University of Lisbon
(http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/teams/user/?id=211)

Intended audience
This five days intensive course will be open to a maximum number of 16
participants, being directed to PhD or MSc students in Biology,
Evolution, Ecology or related areas, and postdocs and other
professionals working in related topics. Minimum formation: Bachelor in
Biology or related area.

The course is free for 1st year PhD students in the Doctoral programme
in Biology (FCUL), Biodiversity, Genetics and Evolution (UL; UP) and
Biology and Ecology of Global Changes (UL, UA). For information of fees
for other participants see the programme details (access link below).

Deadline for applications: May 9, 2016

Candidates should send a short CV and motivation letter to Maria Judite
Alves (mjalves@fc.ul.pt)

For additional details about the course and to know how to register,
click here: http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/ver.php?id

For more information about the course, please contact by email: 
Maria Judite Alves (mjalves@fc.ul.pt)

cE3c - Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Changes Advanced Course 
Lichens as a tool for interpretation of environmental changes
taught by Cristina Maguas, Cristina Branquinho, Sofia Augusto et al.|
July 11-15 2016 @ Lisbon, Portugal

Objectives: With this course, we aim at providing the participants
with the basics of lichen biology and ecology, biomonitoring and data
analysis methods to allow the use of lichens for the interpretation
of the environmental conditions and the development of a responsible
scientific-based environmental management.

Course coordinator
Cristina Maguas (cmhanson@fc.ul.pt)
Associate Professor at the Faculty of Sciences of the University of
Lisbon, Researcher at the Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental
Changes (cE3c) (http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/teams/user/?id=145)

Intended audience
This course will be open to a maximum number of 18 participants, being
directed to PhD or MSc students in Ecology, Environmental Studies,
Geography or related areas, and postdocs and other professionals working
in related topics.  Minimum formation: Bachelor in Biology, Natural
Science or related areas.

The course is free for 1st year PhD students in the Doctoral programme
in Biology (FCUL), Biodiversity, Genetics and Evolution (UL; UP) and
Biology and Ecology of Global Changes (UL, UA). For information of fees
for other participants see the programme details (access link below)

Deadline for applications: May 13, 2016

Candidates should send a short CV and motivation letter to
lichenscourse@fc.ul.pt

For additional details about the course and to know how to register,
click here: http://ce3c.ciencias.ulisboa.pt/training/ver.php?id

For more information about the course, please contact by email: Cristina
Máguas (cmhanson@fc.ul.pt)

Margarida Matos, PhD
Associate Professor

Researcher ID: K-2365-2012
ORCID ID: 0000-0001-6998-5133

Centro de Ecologia, Evolução e Alterações Ambientais
(cE3c - Centre for Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Changes)

Departamento de Biologia Animal
Faculdade de Ciências da Universidade de Lisboa
Campo Grande, Edificio C2 - 1º Piso
Phone: +351 217500000 ext. 22141
1749-016 Lisboa
Portugal

Margarida Matos <mmmatos@fc.ul.pt>

