Hi everyone,

We are pleased to invite you to the seventh edition of the seminar for
students "Models in Ecology and Evolution" (MEE). The seminar will be
held in Montpellier on Monday, June 6 and Tuesday, June 7 at the
Institut de botanique.

This seminar, organized by PhD students, is intended for masters, PhD
students and post-doctoral researchers with interests in theoretical
and modeling approaches in ecology and evolution. The aim is
threefold:
- Give an overview of the current modeling techniques used in ecology
  and evolution: which tools for which questions?
- Highlight the similarities and complementarities between the different
  approaches through stimulating debates.
- Discuss how models contribute to scientific knowledge and how their
  outcome is of use to society.

This seminar consists of a series of talks by both invited researchers
and students, and aims at promoting exchanges between the
participants.
Everyone will be invited on Monday evening to chat over a beer in
downtown Montpellier.

Registration is free and lunches will be provided by the organization.
We encourage participants to register as quickly as possible and to
submit talks (15 minutes + 10 minutes for discussion). The deadline
for registration is the 2nd of May, 2016.

Link for registration and submission of abstracts:
http://www.mee.univ-montp2.fr/registration-3/

The invited speakers are:
Calcagno Vincent (INRA, Nice)
Casenave Céline ( INRA, Montpellier)
Dutreuil Sébastien (U Sorbonne, Paris)
Fraïsse Christelle (IST, Vienne, Autriche)
Gidoin Cindy (CREEC, Montpellier)
Llaurens Violaine (MNHN, Paris)

We look forward to seeing many of you in June in Montpellier!

The organization team, Yoann Anciaux, Thomas Aubier, Alain Danet,
Marion Jourdan, Thomas Koffel, Marjolaine Rousselle
http://www.mee.univ-montp2.fr/

Yoann ANCIAUX
PhD (2nd Year) at ISEM (Institut des Sciences de l'Evolution de Montpellier).

+ 33 (0)6 19 86 58 90
anciaux.yoann@gmail.com

Anciaux Yoann <anciaux.yoann@gmail.com>

