SimBio (http://simbio.com) and the Quantitative Undergraduate Biology
Education and Synthesis (QUBES) project invite applications for a
Faculty Mentoring Network (FMN) focused on using SimBio's SimUText
Ecology as a platform to incorporate more active learning into
ecology courses. Participants in this FMN will each pick two SimBio
chapters to implement in their course, and will work together with
SimBio authors to develop and implement in-class activities to
accompany those chapters with the goal of providing increased
active-learning opportunities to their students.

The FMN will have two main objectives:

1. To develop, localize, and test in-class activities for ecology
classes that can be shared with other faculty, and

2. To promote group-learning and sharing around implementation
strategies for the in-class activities.

The Faculty Mentoring Network is a mentored, long-term community
interaction on the QUBES site. The group will begin working online in
July, with a set of three online two hour meetings.  Applicants must be
teaching ecology or an equivalent course in Fall 2016 and be able to
commit to 1-2 hours per week, including online meetings.  Participants
will receive a stipend for participation. Upon completion of the
Faculty Mentoring Network participants will post their materials and
teaching guidelines for sharing with other ecology faculty.

SimBio will be hosting 20-30 minute webinar sessions at the following
times to discuss the FMN project with instructors who may be interested
in participating:

-Friday April 8th @ 9am pacific, 10am mountain, 11am central, 12pm
eastern

-Friday April 8th @ 11am pacific, 12pm mountain, 1pm central, 2pm
eastern

-Friday April 15th @ 10am pacific, 11am mountain, 12pm central, 1pm
eastern

Please visit http://simbio.com/simutext-ecology-FMN to register for a
session or https://qubeshub.org/groups/simbiofmn for more information.

Questions? Contact Eli Meir (emeir@simbio.com) or Alison Hale
(anm116@pitt.edu)

"Hale, Alison Nicole" <anm116@pitt.edu>

