Please spread this announcement to colleagues:

NIMBioS Tutorial
Evolutionary Quantitative Genetics 2016
Meeting dates: August 8-12, 2016
Location: NIMBioS at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville
Organizers:
Stevan J. Arnold, Integrative Biology, Oregon State Univ.

Joe Felsenstein, Genome Sciences, Univ. of Washington, Seattle
Objectives: This tutorial will review the basics of theory in the field
of evolutionary quantitative genetics and its connections to evolution
observed at various time scales. Quantitative genetics deals with the
inheritance of measurements of traits that are affected by many genes.

Quantitative genetic theory for natural populations was developed
considerably in the period from 1970 to 1990 and up to the present, and
it has been applied to a wide range of phenomena including the
evolution of differences between the sexes, sexual preferences, life
history traits, plasticity of traits, as well as the evolution of body
size and other morphological measurements. Textbooks have not kept pace
with these developments, and currently few universities offer courses
in this subject aimed at evolutionary biologists. There is a need for
evolutionary biologists to understand this field because of the ability
to collect large amounts of data by computer, the development of
statistical methods for changes of traits on evolutionary trees and for
changes in a single species through time, and the realization that
quantitative characters will not soon be fully explained by genomics.

This tutorial aims to fill this need by reviewing basic aspects of
theory and illustrating how that theory can be tested with data, both
from single species and with multiple-species phylogenies. Participants
will learn to use R, an open-source statistical programming language,
to build and test evolutionary models. The intended participants for
this tutorial are graduate students, postdocs, and junior faculty
members in evolutionary biology.

The content of this tutorial will be similar to the tutorial held at
NIMBioS in 2015.

For general information, access the web page of the tutorial at this
address:   http://www.nimbios.org/tutorials/TT_eqg2016
Co-sponsor: American Society of Naturalists
Instructors:
Stevan J. Arnold, Integrative Biology, Oregon State Univ.
Marguerite Butler, Department of Zoology, Univ. Hawaii
Patrick Carter, Evolutionary Physiology, Washington State Univ.,
Pullman
Joe Felsenstein (by video link), Genome Sciences, Univ. of Washington,
Seattle
Adam Jones, Biology, Texas A&M Univ.
Emilia Martins, Biology, Indiana Univ., Bloomington
Brian O'Meara, Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, Univ. of Tennessee
Patrick Phillips, Institute of Ecology and Evolution, Univ. of Oregon
Josef Uyeda, Bioinformatics and Evolutionary Studies, Univ. of Idaho,
Moscow

A descriptive flyer can be accessed at this address:
http://www.nimbios.org/ifiles/TT_eqg2015_flyer.pdf
Application deadline: May 1, 2016
To apply, you must complete an application on our online registration
system:

Use this link to access the system:
https://adnimb.nimbios.org/pages/home
Login or register
Complete your user profile (if you haven't already)
Find this tutorial event under Current Events Open for Application and
click on Apply

Food and lodging. Breakfast and lunch will be provided at NIMBioS each
day of the tutorial, as well as coffee and mid-morning and
mid-afternoon snacks. NIMBioS is not covering dinner, travel, or
lodging expenses for participants. A block of rooms at a group rate
will be reserved at the Four Points by Sheraton Knoxville Cumberland
House Hotel. More information will be available here soon about room
rates and how participants can make reservations.

Joe Felsenstein <joe@gs.washington.edu>

