DEADLINE EXTENDED

Genomic variation has been a recent focus in conservation of rare and
endangered species. However, the immediate response to environmental
challenges will likely be determined by gene expression, which will
constrain the efficacy of response and the likelihood of population
persistence. Nonetheless, gene expression has been poorly studied in
natural populations facing environmental and anthropogenic threats. This
5-day workshop at Asilomar, a resort on the central California coast, will
focus on providing an overview of the general approaches to studying gene
expression as well as the molecular and analytical tools needed to initiate
and complete a field study. We will be oriented toward questions regarding
the conservation of biodiversity, but the tools and approaches can be
applied to a wide variety of questions. The topics covered will include: 1)
RNA sampling, preservation, extraction and quantification; 2) library
construction and sequencing (RNA-Seq and reduced representation bisulphite
sequencing (RRBS)); 3) filtering, quality control, mapping of reads to
transcriptomes and genomes; and 4) statistical analysis, mixed linear
model, WGCNA, GO analysis, TOA and TCA (for whole blood samples) and other
inference techniques; and 5) interpretation of results and functional
analysis.

The workshop will not be restricted to taxonomic groups; it will include
examples from plants, invertebrates, and vertebrates. Applications from
University of California graduate and post-graduate community will receive
higher priority as funding is partly due to a UC president=E2=80=99s office
catalyst award. However, all applications will be considered. *There will
be some special fellowship support for UC students. The $600 registration
includes housing and all meals. Please apply online below. Space will be
limited to 25 students. Applications will be rolling and accepted until
July 15th, 2016.*

*Lecturers*
Robert Wayne, Matteo Pellegrini, Steve Cole (UCLA), Beth Shapiro (UCSC),
Jenny Tung (Duke U), Steve Palumbi (Stanford U), Bridgett vonHoldt
(Princeton U), Zac Cheveron (U Montana) and Christina Richards (U South
Florida).

*Workshop Instructors*
Rachel Johnson, Tiffany Armenta, Alice Mouton, Devaughn Fraser, Gabriela
Pinto, Annabel Beichman, Adam Freedman, and Amanda Lee.

Apply here: https://ucconservationgenomics.eeb.ucla.edu/workshops/

Rachel Meyer <rm181@nyu.edu>

