Introduction to Python for biologists

Monday 5^th to Friday 9^th December 2016 in Berlin, Germany

Instructor: Dr Martin Jones

Overview:

Python is a dynamic, readable language that is a popular platform for
all types of bioinformatics work, from simple one-off scripts to large,
complex software projects. This workshop is aimed at complete beginners
and assumes no prior programming experience. It gives an overview of
the language with an emphasis on practical problem-solving, using
examples and exercises drawn from various aspects of bioinformatics
work. After completing the workshop, students should be in a position
to (1) apply the skills they have learned to tackling problems in their
own research and (2) continue their Python education in a self-directed
way. All course materials (including copies of presentations, practical
exercises, data files, and example scripts prepared by the instructing
team) will be provided electronically to participants.

Intended audience:

This workshop is aimed at all researchers and technical workers with a
background in biology who want to learn programming. The syllabus has
been planned with complete beginners in mind; people with previous
programming experience are welcome to attend as a refresher but may
find the pace a bit slow. If in doubt, take a look at the detailed
session content below or drop Martin Jones
(martin@pythonforbiologists.com) an email.

Teaching format:

The workshop is delivered over ten half-day sessions (see the detailed
curriculum below). Each session consists of roughly a one hour lecture
followed by two hours of practical exercises, with breaks at the
organizer's discretion. There will also be plenty of time for
students to discuss their own problems and data.

Assumed background:

Students should have enough biological background to appreciate the
examples and exercise problems (i.e. they should know about DNA and
protein sequences, what translation is, and what introns and exons
are). No previous programming experience or computer skills (beyond the
ability to use a text editor) are necessary, but you'll need to have a
laptop with Python installed.

Course programme:

Monday 5^th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 1-. Introduction

In this session I introduce the students to Python and explain what we
expect them to get out of it and how learning to program can benefit
their research. I explain the format of the course and take care of any
housekeeping details (like coffee breaks and catering arrangements). I
outline the edit-run-fix cycle of software development and talk about
how to avoid common text editing errors. In this session, we also check
that the computing infrastructure for the rest of the course is in
place (e.g. making sure that everybody has an appropriate version of
Python installed). Core concepts introduced: source code, text editors,
whitespace, syntax and syntax errors, Python versions

Session 2-Output and text manipulation

In this session students learn to write very simple programs that
produce output to the terminal, and in doing so become comfortable with
editing and running Python code. This session also introduces many of
the technical terms that we'll rely on in future sessions. I run
through some examples of tools for working with text and show how they
work in the context of biological sequence manipulation. We also cover
different types of errors and error messages, and learn how to go about
fixing them methodically. Core concepts introduced: terminals, standard
output, variables and naming, strings and characters, special
characters, output formatting, statements, functions, methods,
arguments, comments.

Tuesday 6^th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 3-File IO and user interfaces

I introduce this session by talking about the importance of files in
bioinformatics pipelines and workflows, and we then explore the Python
interfaces for reading from and writing to files. This involves
introducing the idea of types and objects, and a bit of discussion
about how Python interacts with the operating system. The practical
session is spent combining the techniques from session 2 with the file
IO tools to create basic file- processing scripts. Core concepts
introduced: objects and classes, paths and folders, relationships
between variables and values, text and binary files, newlines.

Session 4. Flow control 1 : loops

A discussion of the limitations of the techniques learned in session 3
quickly reveals that flow control is required to write more
sophisticated file-processing programs, and I introduce the concept of
loops. We look at the way in which Python loops work, and how they can
be used in a variety of contexts. We explore the use of loops and lists
together to tackle some more difficult problems. Core concepts
introduced: lists and arrays, blocks and indentation, variable scoping,
iteration and the iteration interface, ranges.

Wednesday 7^th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 5-Flow control 2 : conditionals

I use the idea of decision-making as a way to introduce conditional
tests, and outline the

different building-blocks of conditions before showing how conditions
can be combined in an expressive way. We look at the different ways
that we can use conditions to control program flow, and how we can
structure conditions to keep programs readable. Core concepts
introduced: Truth and falsehood, Boolean logic, identity and equality,
evaluation of statements, branching.

Session6- Organizing and structuring code

We discuss functions that we'd like to see in Python before
considering how we can add to our computational toolbox by creating our
own. We examine the nuts and bolts of writing functions before looking
at best-practice ways of making them usable. We also look at a couple
of advanced features of Python - named arguments and defaults. Core
concepts introduced: argument passing, encapsulation, data flow through
a program.

Thursday 17^th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session-7. Regular expressions

I show how a range of common problems in bioinformatics can be
described in terms of pattern matching, and give an overview of
Python's regex tools. We look at the building blocks of regular
expressions themselves, and learn how they are a general solution to
the problem of describing patterns in strings, before practising
writing some specific examples of regular expressions. Core concepts
introduced: domain-specific languages, modules and namespaces.

Session 8-Dictionaries

We discuss a few examples of key-value data and see how the problem of
storing them is a common one across bioinformatics and programming in
general. We learn about the syntax for dictionary creation and
manipulation before talking about the situations in which dictionaries
are a better fit that the data structures we have learned about thus
far. Core concepts introduced: paired data types, hashing, key
uniqueness, argument unpacking and tuples.

Friday 18^th - Classes from 09:30 to 17:30

Session 9-Interaction with the filesystem

We discuss the role of Python in the context of a bioinformatics
workflow, and how it is often used as a language to "glue" various
other components together. We then look at the Python tools for
carrying out file and directory manipulation, and for running external
programs - two tasks that are often necessary in order to integrate
our own programs with existing ones. Core concepts introduced:
processes and sub-processes, the shell and shell utilities, program
return values.

Session-10

Optional free afternoon to cover previous modules and discuss data

Further information:

 The cost is 555 euros (VAT included) including refreshments and course
materials. We also offer an all-inclusive package at 795 euros(VAT
included), including breakfast, lunch, dinner, refreshments,
accommodation, course and transfer from/to the main city's airports.

Please feel free to contact us if you need any further information.

Physalia-courses

info@physalia-courses.org

www.physalia-courses.org

@physacourses

Carlo Pecoraro <info@physalia-courses.org>

