Call for contributions

Workshop on Mathematical and Statistical Aspects of Molecular Biology

http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/events/masamb2016

26th annual workshop, Computer Science Laboratory, Cambridge, UK

Important dates:
August 5 2016: Submission deadline for oral presentations
September 5 2016: Author notification date
September 5 2016: Late submission deadline for poster presentations
October 3/4, 2016: Workshop date

WORKSHOP DESCRIPTION

Bioinformatics and statistical genetics, twin themes of the long-running
series of annual MASAMB meetings, have gained huge impetus from
large-scale genome sequencing projects and development of high-throughput
biological assay systems, including gene-expression microarrays, proteomic
and single-cell genomics technologies. These immense data resources,
and the underlying complexities of molecular and cell biology, provide
exciting research opportunities for numerate scientists.

The workshop will host presentations of emerging problems and statistical
techniques in molecular biology.  We encourage contributions describing
either progress on new molecular problems or work on established problems
using new approaches that are substantially different from established
approaches. Kernel methods, graphical models, semi-supervised approaches,
feature selection and other techniques applied to relevant problems
would all be appropriate for the workshop. 

SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS

The MASAMB program will be compiled from submitted abstracts. Researchers
interested in contributing should upload a one-page abstract in PDF
format to the MASAMB submission site 

https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=masamb2016

by August 5, 11:59pm (BST).

All submissions will be peer reviewed and will be evaluated on the
basis of their technical content.  A typical submission to the workshop
represents a new mathematical or statistical approach applied to a problem
in molecular biology. We encourage submissions both for established as
well as new and emerging fields.

The workshop allows submissions of abstracts that are based on papers
that are currently under review or have been recently published in a
conference or a journal. The authors should clearly state any overlapping
published work at time of submission. 

LOCAL ORGANIZERS

Max Convey (University of Cambridge)
Pietro Lio? (University of Cambridge)
Oliver Stegle (EMBL-EBI)
Lara Urban (EMBL-EBI)

"goldman@ebi.ac.uk" <goldman@ebi.ac.uk>

