The National Institute for Mathematical and Biological Synthesis (NIMBioS),
an NSF funded synthesis center located at the University of Tennessee, is
seeking applicants for a workshop on improving analytical approaches in
conservation and population genetics.  The workshop will be Nov 7-9.  A
brief summary is below and more information and a link to apply can be
found here: http://www.nimbios.org/workshops/WS_nextgen  DEADLINE TO APPLY
IS VERY SOON- JULY 24.  Financial support for travel, meals, and lodging
(typically full funding) is available for workshop attendees.

As biodiversity loss accelerates and environmental challenges mount, there
is need for quantitative evaluation of the status and trends of genetic
biodiversity. However, appropriate mathematical tools for this evaluation
are lacking. Despite major recent advances in obtaining genetic data,
current genetic metrics are piecemeal, may be incomparable across studies
and data types, and are often collected and presented in an ad hoc manner.

There is urgent need to conceive and develop standard, summary-level
genetic indices that are robust, easily interpretable and tractable across
diverse datasets. In this workshop we will develop a framework for
constructing these mathematical tools. Specifically, we will: identify key
attributes of successful indices in biodiversity science, survey and
critique existing genetic metrics, and identify potential statistical
approaches suitable for summarizing the highly dimensional nature of
genetic data. We hope the workshop will inspire synthesis papers, new
collaborations, and research funding proposals for developing, evaluating
and distributing new genetic indices.
The inherent challenges of our aims require participants from diverse
fields: statistics, mathematics, ecology, evolutionary biology,
conservation science, complexity, genetics, network and biodiversity
science.  Please apply if you have interest in these fields and appreciate
broad collaboration and cross-disciplinary work.

Sean Hoban <shoban@alumni.nd.edu>

