18th YOUNG SYSTEMATISTS=92 FORUM

Friday, 25 November 2016, 9:30 am
Venue: Flett Lecture Theatre,
Natural History Museum, London, UK

The annual Young Systematists=92 Forum represents an exciting setting for
Masters, PhD and young postdoctoral researchers to present their data,
often for the first time, to a scientific audience interested in taxonomy,
systematics and phylogenetics. This well-established event provides an
important opportunity for budding systematists to discuss their research
in front of their peers within a supportive environment. Supervisors
and other established systematists are also encouraged to attend.

Prizes will be awarded for the most promising oral and poster presentation
as judged by a small panel on the day.

Registration is FREE.  Send applications by e-mail to
(YSF.SystematicsAssociation@gmail.com), supplying your name, contact
address and stating whether or not you wish to give an oral or poster
presentation. Please also tell us your academic stage =96 e.g., Masters,
PhD or postdoc. Space will be allocated subject to availability and for
a balanced programme of animal, plant, algal, microbial, molecular and
other research. Non-presenting attendees are also very welcome - please
register as above.

Again the YSF will be held the day after the Molluscan Forum
(http://www.malacsoc.org.uk/MolluscanForum.htm) also at the Natural
History Museum. This has been arranged so both meetings can be attended,
although if attending both you will have to register for both meetings
separately.

Abstracts must be submitted by e-mail in English no later than Friday 28
October 2016. The body text should not exceed 150 words in length. Title,
authors, and their professional affiliations should be included with
the abstracts. If the presentation is co-authored, the actual speaker
(oral) or presenter (poster) must be clearly indicated in BOLD text.

If you have presented a talk at the YSF before, we ask that you submit
only for a poster presentation, as speaker slots are limited and we
want to give as many people a chance as possible. Similarly, if you are
presenting at both the YSF and MF, we ask that you not apply for speaking
slots in both (or let us know so we can assess).

All registered attendants will receive further information about
the meeting, including abstracts, by e-mail one week in advance. This
information will also be displayed on the Systematics Association website
(www.systass.org).

Dr Ellinor MICHEL
Department of Life Sciences
The Natural History Museum
Cromwell Road
SW7 5BD London  UK  tel: +44-207-942-5516

http://nhm.academia.edu/EllinorMichel
www.researchgate.net/profile/Ellinor_Michel

Ellinor Michel <e.michel@nhm.ac.uk>

