Come to the 7th International Symposium on Biomolecular Archaeology
(ISBA7) from 14th -16th September 2016 hosted in Oxford, UK.

The registration deadline closes on August 12th and more than 150 people
have registered already.

The 2016 Conference is expected to attract 200+ delegates and
will encourage and promote interdisciplinary research - ideally in
combination with archaeology - by means of DNA, RNA, proteins, lipids
or stable isotopes and will feature plenary and parallel sessions with
an outstanding line up of speakers from around the word.

Please bookmark our website http://palaeobarn.com/isba7 where details
about the conference will follow, including information on registration,
abstract submission and the scientific programme.  Online registration
and abstract submission will open in early April and we will let you
know as soon as this goes live so you can take advantage of the early
bird discount!

We are proud to build on the success of previous ISBA conferences held
in Amsterdam, Stockholm, York, Copenhagen, Beijing, and most recently
Basel in 2014, however we are very much looking forward to being able
to welcome you to our city and to our University. Nine centuries of
development have gone into building the University of Oxford and its
colleges and we are fortunate to be able to hosting ISBA7 in two of
the finest University and college settings; the day sessions will take
place at the Oxford Museum of Natural History (http://www.oum.ox.ac.uk/)
and the conference will conclude on the Friday evening with a drinks
reception and banquet in the spectacular dining hall at Balliol college
http://www.balliol.ox.ac.uk/) one of the oldest Oxford colleges.

Getting to Oxford could not be easier. We are at the heart of the UK
and fast and efficient train and coach services link Oxford with London
and the north and south of the country, and the M40 and A34 ensure easy
access by road.

Please forward information about ISBA7 onto anyone who might be interested
and let us know if you have any queries by emailing the organizers at
isba7@arch.ox.ac.uk

We look forward to welcoming you in September!

"greger.larson@arch.ox.ac.uk" 

