American Society of Naturalists Call for Symposium Proposals for 2017

Symposium at Evolution 2017

Due September 1, 2016

The American Society of Naturalists invites symposium proposals for a
special symposium to be held at the 2017 annual joint meeting of the
Society for the Study of Evolution, the American Society of Naturalists,
and the Society of Systematic Biologists, to be held June 23-27, 2017 in
Portland, Oregon.

Symposium topics should support the Society=92s goal to advance the
conceptual unification of the biological sciences and further knowledge in
evolution, ecology, behavior and organismal biology. The committee will
consider all submitted proposals. However, because 2017 marks the 150th
anniversary of the founding of The American Naturalist, we are especially
keen to sponsor a symposium that broadly celebrates the journal and the
society. For instance, a symposium might bring together talks that use
diverse natural history approaches to investigate a conceptual issue, or
target speakers that have a track record of publishing in the journal, or
highlight topics that promise to be especially pressing for the society in
the coming decades. A travel, registration, and accommodation budget of
$8,000 is provided to help with expenses.

Symposium at ESA 2017

Due September 1, 2016

The American Society of Naturalists invites symposium proposals for a
special symposium to be held at the 2017 Ecological Society of America
annual meeting August 6-11, 2017 in Portland, Oregon. By holding this
second annual symposium at ESA, ASN hopes to strengthen ties between the
society and ecologists.

Symposium topics should support the Society=92s goal to advance the
conceptual unification of the biological sciences and further knowledge in
evolution, ecology, behavior and organismal biology. Proposals are
encouraged on topics that are synthetic, interdisciplinary or that address
important emerging issues in evolution, ecology and behavior. Because this
symposium is in conjunction with the ecology meeting, special weight will
be given to integrative topics of interest to ecologists. A travel,
registration, and accommodation budget of $8,000 is provided to help with
expenses.

Proposal Procedures

Proposals should include (1) a title; (2) a description of the symposium
topic (one page); (3) a tentative list of six speakers, including
institutional affiliations; (4) a justification for the symposium
explaining why the topic and speakers are appropriate for a
Society-sponsored symposium (up to one page).

Please submit proposals by midnight Eastern Standard Time on September 1,
2016 by email (emilies@umn.edu) as a single pdf attachment, under subject
heading: ASN Symposium Proposal: ESA (or Evolution) 2017. Proposals that
include women, young investigators and individuals from underrepresented
groups are especially encouraged.

The Society=92s selection committee will evaluate proposals based on the
significance and timeliness of the topic, and on it being substantively
different from recent symposia sponsored by the Society. All applicants
will be notified of the decision within a month of the deadline.

Emilie Snell-Rood
ASN Symposium Committee Chair
Department of Ecology, Evolution and Behavior
University of Minnesota
emilies@umn.edu

Emilie Snell-Rood <emilies@umn.edu>

